e e
well good morning folks how are
you just give me a minute here or
two I'm going to place you on mute for a
second
e
e e
how you check
one check one okay so we should we should be
okay all right good morning folks how
are you hope everybody's doing well
sorry for the delay my wife is not here to help me
do the uh wrangling of the pups so I was uh giving
them a little bit of peanut butter to try to hold
them off as I put them in their kennel all right
so uh it's going to be a casual one today and just
as a reminder I I will be here every day this week
at 9:30 um give me a little bit of time up to that
point um I'm aiming between 9:15 9:25 is in that
ballpark there's a couple things I'm juggling in
my personal life this uh this week that prevent
me from doing a little bit earlier St time but
with that said um just know that we'll have a
live stream just I guess I guess the easiest way
is just to kind of like head to the channel if
you're going to you know want to be here hang
out around 9:15 and you'll probably see the
I guess the logo for my YouTube channel it'll
it'll turn red around the outside of it if you
click on that it'll take you right to the live
stream um I don't know how to notify you otherwise
so I just I said just anticipate between 9:15 and
9:25 you know today which is Monday August 12th
through Friday so tomorrow and on Wednesday we
have some high impact news drivers uh the PPI CPI
numbers they they're usually the ones that tear
your face off and it's real hard to predict what
they're going to do they're extremely manipulated
so just know that uh we'll be waiting for the
market to kind of like digest that and a good time
to do that a few minutes before the opening belt
9:30 so I have a few things I want to cover while
we're waiting for uh the market to be around here
a little bit more the uh the YouTube channel for
my son Caleb uh last time I checked it was about
12,000 is subscribers thank you for that I'm sure
there's probably going to be a little bit more
people following it without actually subscribing
so it is what it is but um he had to work this
weekend so that prevented us from having a session
together where we could review so I'm deferring
that one and if it becomes impossible to do that I
will simply just do a video covering and reviewing
the week and how his charts should look and then
he'll have to watch it and then we'll have to do
a subsequent video where you know he can kind of
like add his uh his view on but we have 7 o'clock
this morning delineating that here this is kind
of like what you should be doing Caleb and then
we have the run here creating the initial buy
side liquidity and the low taking that out here
so we have a minor cell side liquidity pool
resting right below here and you can see how
we're working the initial cell side liquidity
which is that low right there now whenever I
have a time where if I'm looking at a specific
element of for instance like 7 o'c say it's your
opening time for your trading as we were talking
about last week if you're going to be looking at
the charts and start watching price as early as 7
o'clock in the morning you're going to be met with
something like this where you'll have a high right
here to the left of your stock start time and then
actually right at 7:00 creates a a high whenever
it's like that I'm going to wait for the initial
run because I know it's probably going to take
this High out and it's certainly probably going
to certainly probably here out certainly probably
uh this coin something else the uh the short-term
high is cre rate at the 7 o'clock candle so
that initial liquidity is an interest to me
so I want to watch and see does it in fact
trade above here and if it does I'll give it
some allowance okay the trade there I'm not trying
to annotate that high I want to see the short-term
High here form and then start to trade lower and
if it takes out that low then I'm highlighting
that high and I'm highlighting that low so now you
can see we ran above this here and if you look at
look scrub over here to the left a little bit more
Michael so you have all these relative equal highs
the market did in fact make a run above that
so that disrupted all that price action over
there which [Music] leaves this low which is
the minor cell side liquidity it's inside the
range starting at 7: a.m. but it's also inside
the range that was formed from the run from the
London session which is over here now initially
when I'm looking at this my eye gravitates to
this low and it also gravitates to these lows here
which is why I have like I have this low in mine
this low and this low which is why I have all this
highlighted as a layered cells side liquidity pool
so it's it's there's a few of them in there
that have my interest this is relative equal
to that and it's also slightly higher than that
and then we have this low here even though this
one disrupted that I have to at least consider
that okay um um the upside where we had these
relative equal highs and we had this old high here
which is initial buy side we've already ran that
and started to sell off so on the on the buy side
of the market it's been made Jagged initially but
we have no news data ahead of CPI and PPI going
into Tuesday and Wednesday's trading so when we
have that it's it's kind of a little bit um more
uncertain I guess the the the right words would
be so you have to pick your uh pick your shots a
little bit more carefully and kind of like an an
analys I got peanut butter on the roof of my mouth
too I snuck a bite before I gave to them you have
to do your analysis a little bit uh more critical
than if you had a high impactor news driver that's
medium impact during the morning session and since
we have nothing of that this morning and then we
have some really big Heavy Hitters for Tuesday and
Wednesday at 8:30 uh they're going to move around
a lot so a lot of interest is kind of deferred
until after that report comes out on Tuesday and
after the report comes out on Wednesday if you
take a look at your economic calendar you'll see
what I'm talking about it's the PPI and CPI
numbers I don't ever care to know what those
numbers are actually stating uh because frankly
you know like I've mentioned many times before
it's of no interest to me I'm not going to be a
student enough to know what that data is going
to tell me for a buy or sell it's not giving
me any kind of information that is actionable
so therefore I never consider worrying about
what the the raw data is I'm sure some of you
in here listening that are very um interested in
the fundamental aspects of of the market and if
that's suits you then you know well done I just
don't have an interest in that so therefore I
defer all of that to everyone that wants to cons
consider it useful I look at the the time when the
market is likely to give those types of runs they
go protracted usually one directional and then
sometimes they'll change on an aggressive reversal
and go the other direction um most of the time
it's just a one directional Landslide okay or it
just blows up and goes straight up and it's really
unless you're really positioned early on something
in London or whatever which I don't try to do that
and to prove my uh very low interest in trying to
be in a directional move for CPI or PPI I have on
Twitter spaces in the past um mentioned what I
thought was going to potentially P pan out and
in what direction or it may aim for and true to
form it's it's never accurate so I shouldn't say
never I was I think I was right twice last year
with the CPI and BPI but otherwise I'm usually
wrong so I don't need to do that for years and
years and years uh just to you belabor the point
and say okay well this is not advantageous for me
so I I sit on the sidelines and I wait and I wait
for more information to come after that market is
Mo is moving because of the intervention because I
don't know where they're going to put the market
right as that report comes out and no one really
does to be honest with you no one knows that and
even if someone had a inkling I'm I'm confident
that if a position was placed large enough
ahead of it they would run it the other way
just for the sake of upsetting it so that's the
conspiratorial mindset of my of of Michael right
so I'm not interested in worrying about all those
types of things um when we look at the market
it's it's probably better for you to trade when
it's not having a day like this where there's no
uh there's no real data to concern oursel with and
trade in the afternoon but if there's things that
are in the marketplace that are more conducive
for taking trade setups looking for Price runs
that move to a logical price level where it's
it's really telling it gives you Insight that
I guess goes against the grain of retail stuff
like supposed diagonal support and resistance
or indicator crossovers or over oversold that type
of thing um if I have those types of advantages in
price action and they're they're hinting to the
likelihood of that arm wrestling match I talked
about last week where we have Smart money Concepts
time and price and liquidity and inefficiencies if
that's arm wrestling if it's arm wrestling the um
Central tenants that go along with retail trading
Concepts and things that lead to in my opinion
guessing um I I guess it's more appropriate for
me I'm not saying it should be appropriate for you
but if you have a an affinity for just trying to
trade every morning session because that's your
operating hours you know if you have those types
of things in play and you can identify them
you don't really need economic calendar to I
guess push push a narrative or push a sentiment
um you can just trade the just the price action
itself you don't need a whole lot to you know
go on but uh it's in it's in my interest as an
educator to kind of like promote the idea that
an economic calendar behind you moving with the
ideas that you're looking for technically uh
that in my opinion is better so when you have
a a morning without economic data it becomes a
whole lot more problematic in terms of seeing
sustained price runs uh you have to know what
you're looking for where you're looking to take
profits partials um move quickly to protect your
position not try to uh look for home runs give
yourself flexibility knowing that you potentially
may get it wrong because you have big news on the
the following day and day after and in this case
we have that with PPI and CPI so it's important
to pay yourself if you get the opportunity to do
so give yourself the opportunity to see if it can
run but don't punish yourself if it doesn't case
in point right here partials always pay you never
have to worry about being right or wrong once you
take your first partial it completely removes all
of that necessity about being right or wrong so
let me cancel this order because it should have
given it to me in my opinion should have went down
down there but it didn't so because it came back
I have to sit and relax and give some more time
through the marketplace we have the opening range
still here I think we still come down in here
even though it took me out before it actually did
it but this would have been a a transaction that
would not take away from the equity it added to
when we have opportunities to see the price action
move in our favor and we don't take partials if we
do not take a a piece of the pie if you will or
a bite or a pound of Flesh before it gets to our
major objective or our Terminus our main target if
that's not the case for your trading right now you
need to start adopting that because especially
with the volatility that's in the markets today
I'm I'm saying specifically today but you know
in recent months and years that volatility is
going to give you a whole lot more adversity the
markets can come back multiple times into the
general vinity where you enter the trade at and
when you have the potential for the market to pull
that deeply back into your trade if you don't know
what you're looking for if you're if you're afraid
to get back in or you just lose the plot you have
no idea what it's doing it's better just to take
that Victory whatever that was in this case you
see a limit order was filled you see they a stop
loss was brought down to protect the underlying
position and it came back just to to take it and
now we're back inside the range created from
that run here to that short-term high and we
have yet still to take out let me take these
little identifiers off for a second so you can
see just fell short of running into that okay
now these are the the little gremlins okay the
little gremlins that creep in to your Trading
and you can get emotional about it you can get
mad about it you can punch the air and say it's
so and so's fault it's somebody else's fault or
you can say you know what I was part of a move I
looked for certain signatures to pan out it gave
me the opportunity and displacement and and it
ran to obvious levels of liquidity it took out
this shortterm low I wasn't interested in having
any limit orders below that this one here I like
that and I have this one shaded arm here okay and
what that means is I want to see it get below it
it each one each one of these candles hasn't
really giving me a kind of like a trade below
it spend some time below it and then come back
up and and tap into it as a potential inversion
fair value cap if you ever looking at my charts
if I'm sharing shaded areas on price if it's
shaded orange like this to me okay my interest
is some some facet of seeing price go below it
and come back up and then treat it as a means of
barrier that it doesn't want to get back above it
if I start watching candlesticks promote that
idea and then I see a displacement I might in
invite the opportunity for them to put me into
a short with a fair value Gap a institutional
order flow entry drill um I don't know maybe a
bearish order block something something to that
effect but it hasn't given me enough information
here to justify that yet so I'm watching to see
if they just take out this short-term high and
then what they do after that if it was to take
like this High out or maybe come back up and even
touch in this again if it can get back below this
one here then I I may entertain the idea of
maybe trading that b below here I do really
like the idea that they've kept this l and this
low in the kind of like in the rule book if you
will that now we have relative equal lows there
and this one here has a lot of liquidity in it
because we have it's it's 5:00 a.m. it's during
the close of the London session so we see the
market wanting to reach down into that but then
stop short of it okay and I'm quite certain that
Phil p l yeah uh said no not today
because ict's got a limit order down
there and then came back for the stop but who's
fil so I'm interested in seeing does it now want
to go down below this area here come back up and
then does it displace it made it could do it
and it could do it so quickly and violently
that it doesn't really give me a chance to get in
it but I want I want to talk about the importance
of knowing when these high impact news drivers
on the economic calendar like we have a Monday
okay generally I'm not a real big fan of Mondays
uh I like to see other Traders go out there put
their neck on the Block and then see what the
general consensus and sentiment is on a given
week where we don't have non-farm payroll okay
so if we have nonfarm payroll I'm interested
in trading on Mondays every single mon Monday
that has non-farm payroll Friday I'm trading
and engaging on Monday's trading I'm absolutely
looking for moves to do you something that gets
me into a trade generally I'm not interested in
Mondays otherwise and because of that I'm trying
to counsel my son and his brothers if they watch
these videos too I'm hoping it will inspire them
to do it as well but um they shouldn't be trying
to trade on a Monday in the morning session ahead
of PPI and CPI numbers like like we have here so
if there's ever a a real big huge neon sign that
says don't really try to trade on this because I
know a lot of my students will say and a lot of
people that don't like me or they try to troll
me for for clicks and Views and AD revenue or
attention they'll say ICT never trades and or he
says never trade on Monday and then they'll show
their after def fact trade and they'll say this is
what I did did and that's great you know well two
do but there's a lot of things I don't personally
want to do as a Trader and other people do and
they make money I'm not arguing that but what
I'm saying is is because you're here watching
my content the interest is you're wanting to
know my opinion or what I'm thinking or what
makes me tick about an idea about a market
going higher or lower and what do I look for
in terms of a trade idea what do I look for for a
setup okay or when do I try to avoid taking those
traits it's important for my son to know that it's
problematic on days like this because number one
it's the morning session everybody's chopping
at the bit to do something and large pools of
liquidity big big players in the marketplace are
not going to position this morning because they
know what's waiting on Tuesday and Wednesday so
because of that just know that you're going to see
a lot of this type of action where it's up down
it's real skittish meaning that it goes up it
goes back down it goes back up it goes back down
and it becomes very very sloppy real quick and
it becomes almost Seek and Destroy like now what
does Seek and Destroy Seek and Destroy is where
the market will go just above a short-term High
just to go back lower to take out a old short-term
low then come back up take out that short-term
high that was just formed and then vice versa
it go back and forth back and forth and it kind
of runs you over even if you're in a position
as you saw here at the opening of The Stream
even though I can be right in the direction
and I can see where it wants to potentially go
Allah here we are it can still come back and
take me out now if it wasn't a Monday with
a PPI and CPI numbers coming out on Tuesday
and Wednesday I would go back in and short up
here but because it's not conducive for that
because we have huge news coming out Tuesday and
Wednesday I know that the probabilities are likely
didn't think I saw that coming did you Phil the
high being bumped there and then trading lower
here is the new week opening Gap high so the
bias as I was teaching last week here's your
new week opening gap for this week we had price
above it it rallied up it took liquidity and
where's the draw going to be where where's that
like black hole of of just constant tension and
pressure to pull price Caleb it's the new week
opening gaps okay so if we have that and we
have an old new day opening Gap here we'll have
a new one tonight when 5:00 pm comes and then we
have the opening at 6 PM we'll create another new
day opening Gap but right now we have to work with
new week opening Gap and old remember I told you
last week that the new day opening gaps have a
shelf life or life cycle not that it's limited
to five days but if you work with them in that
perspective you'll see how the market uses this
idea where it gravitates back and forth towards
towards these levels they're inefficiencies
that will be used again like a magnet will
draw price to it so when we're looking at bias
these are going to be your first Central tenants
to trying to derive what that bias is so if
we know that the new week opening Gap is is
here for this past Sunday or yesterday evening 6
p.m. in relationship to I guess if I scrub over
here you'll see uh we'll come back to it in
a second the uh it's less than 20 handles so
therefore I'm not really interested in imitating
the quadrants inside of it you can eyeball it is
about halfway here in the upper quadrant here
and lower quadrants there and if it gets trade
if it can trade through that and then we go
back into new day opening gap of the 9th okay
so that's Friday new day opening Gap that would
been formed and calibrated from Thursday evening
New York local time it's Thursday's 5:00 pm
closing price in settlement and then 6 p.m.
1 hour later new session opening so between
those two price points you get it here and
again it's not annotating the quadrants or the
midpoint because it's less than 20 handles okay
so if we have a previous new day opening guy
below price and we have new week opening Gap
here and the market was made Jagged here and
we have inefficiencies that we're respecting
it the Market's going to do what at the opening
bell it's going to gravitate in the direction
of these old inefficiencies because the market is
algorithmic so it has to refer back to those same
things I was teaching last week so that way we're
not sitting here staring at bookmap charts okay or
things like that talking about nonsense and the
whole time the Market's moving and not having
had a trade or even knowing the bias there you go
so you want to screenshot that okay you want to
screenshot it again and put it on your calendar
the ICT was talking about this stuff last week
and talked about it live coming back up and just
bumping this High here and then ripping it down
here's your open trades back up touch touches the
bottom of the inversion Fair Val you got that's a
trade not on a date that's ahead of PPI CPI and
the market rips lower eats right on through all
of the layered liquidity here upper quadrant
level trades lower and look at the bodies how
the bodies are stopping right new week opening
Gap see that is that beautiful so it's probably
random all this stuff probably is working off of
uh you know some classic uh Steve neelson chart
pattern oh man I can't but I I have to do I
have to do it it's my burden I have to carry
it so the uh the idea of looking at bias I gave
you those elements last week okay and using them
fortifying that as part of your repertoire and
your regimen your uh guidance that I gave you
uh last week as you can see all those rules
are still here they're still here and we're
trading down into the previous Friday or week
of new day opening app okay so I know some of
you I know some of you may look at these
these ideas and think you know this is
pretty complicated it's very hard for me to
get a feel for what he's doing and and that
that's normal because you're getting exposed to
it for the first time and because you have Tik
Tok mentality you think it should be understood
in 30 seconds you know and it's not going to be
like that first of all you have your brain clogged
up with with nonsense and things that other people
sold you in books and courses and lied to you and
said this is what the market does and this is how
it works and smart money concepts are nonsense and
there's no algorithm but here you again I told you
I told you last week we're going to sit here and
you're going to see this stuff working again here
it is okay but trading to to the midpoint okay
or consequent encouragement that ends my interest
in the morning session it could come back up
into this and then rotate one more time just
to take that low out and trade the consequent
encouragement and that would complete my day
or my morning session or the interest thereof
I would not be interested in trying to buy it
I would not be trying to go long I would not be
trying to go into a short that that you hopefully
moves 200 handles or plus that would completely be
against my expectations and why would I have that
opinion about not doing much more or having an
interest greater than than I outlined here which
would be consequent encouragement number one
it's already moved one-sided it's had a really
nice displacement lower it just really just tore
off went a lot lower than most of you probably
were expecting but it went right to the levels
I was showing you here in the live stream it was
it was it was going to draw to these levels
because we've made made a run higher during
London we rallied up bumped a previous high and
then we had the market create jaggedness as I was
talking about okay so there you go it completely
went down to the low so I'm I'm done I would
move to the sidelines and everybody that's been
following along and went short take your profits
and be content okay I don't care if it goes lower
just take your profits and move the design I know
I know you guys are following this and you're
thinking he's got these levels on there and I
know it's going to fill so I'm going to use my
own methodology and I'm going to trade to his
levels I don't want to hear about it I don't want
to hear about it please don't don't give me high
fives in the comment section even though I'm the
only one that can see that don't do that because
every single time I I see a wave of people doing
that and they're like thank you so much I took a
trade on this and I used your don't do that
because that means I'm going to be worrying
about you and I don't want to worry about none of
you okay but let's take a quick look real quick
and recap what was going on we have an old clean
level over here which very well could could go up
here and bump that but we have to use the rules as
I outlined last week where you start looking at 7
o'l and you're going to wait for relative
equal highs okay relative equal highs boom
boom what's this high in relationship to that
one is it higher to the high to the left of it
or lower it's lower so doesn't that mean that
that meets the criteria doesn't it yes so when
you have this or the candle at 7 o'clock you
know it just starts to drop down from there
I'm not interested to ever classifying that
as the initial point of buy side liquidity
I'm not interested in that I'll wait and defer
my actions on annotating and labeling because
I know just to the left of that it's it's
here too so I want to see it form literal
relative equal highs so in case you missed it or
I didn't give you a good enough explanation what
I meant earlier when we first started talking
it's in the rules I told you last week so it's
not like I'm ad living here it's what I said last
week in the lectures so you're going to wait so
if your if your starting point is not 7 o'clock
okay say it's not 7 o'clock and you start at 8
o'cl right there okay the same thing you're
going to refer to any relative equal highs
that have not been pierced or breached that
formed after 7:00 but sometimes they will
already have taken them out and then you'll
have to sit and wait and wait for your own
relative equal highs or relative equal lows
to form post 8:00 if you're going to use the
9:00 hour you have several other factors
that you can use okay um the opening range
as I was showing Caleb last Friday you go as
students are familiar with this because I've
I've shown this before using the uh regular
trading hours so if we were looking at it this
way are you mad ICT they stopped you out before
it dropped no because I know this is going to
work again it doesn't just work on one day okay it
works every day and every week and it won't stop
so if we have what's nice is I I'll explain
to you that they would probably run it to this
everybody G maybe bump and clear the highs and
then drop it lower so I I can anticipate and this
is what experience and this is also a little bit
understanding the sords code um what they'll do if
I'm going to be wrong how will I be wrong now for
someone that may hear that and think wait a minute
if you know you're going to be wrong or you're
potentially going to be wrong like that's not
bragging right you know if you know you're going
to be wrong why'd you take the trade well there's
going to be times where you get into a trade and
when you take that trade it seems appropriate and
then the things that you were looking for start
fizzling out and they are no no longer supporting
your trade so it becomes a much more likelihood
that you're not going to get the objective you're
you're seeking and if it's something that you
anticipate potentially closing the trade on
you prematurely wouldn't you want to move your
stop- loss in an advantageous location so that
way if it was the reverse on you you still go home
with something not a loss that's that's the parts
that comes from learning from me talking when I'm
talking about specific things if you don't have a
frame of reference to refer to the logic as to why
is the trade still viable why should I hold the
trade what prevents me from getting back into the
trade if I get stopped out there has to be rules
for that okay and if you don't start to build on
them in the early stages of your development you
won't have anything to lean on except for your
buying and being profitable or you're selling and
being profitable and all the losses in between and
nothing except for the emotional response to that
versus these are the conditions this is more more
appropriate for the chart to say this to me again
later on and I'm going to take that as a setup to
get back into a trade idea that Mak will be viable
but if you are referring to the economic calendar
and you understand the effects of manipulation
that comes by way of PPI and CPI numbers much
like a non-firm payroll day and or fomc where it's
highly influenced by direct manual intervention
that means you're not going to be able to be a
part of the move most of the time because they're
just going to steam roll over everything but on a
day ahead of those reports and if it happens to
be a Monday you give yourself one chance if you
can get into a trade early on wonderful using the
things I taught last week and what I'm showing
you here it's not random that the Market's going
to respect these levels okay i' I've said it at
nauseum when I first started talking about it
last year on Twitter spaces when I introduced
the idea of new week opening gaps and new day
opening gaps it was last spring summertime in
2023 for the most part part I've watched most
of the online chatter about them fizzle out
and frankly that's exactly what I wanted to see
happen because I shared it and the students that
have done any work in them they have seen value
in it but because the most the majority of the
online trading Community not just my community but
everyone they they're all looking for this magic
lamp where they can pick it up rub it three times
and a genie you pop out and say where do you what
do you want to know today okay the Market's
going to go up to this level buy it at this
you know you got one more wish you want a stop
loss it doesn't ever get stopped out okay there's
your three wishes for the day come back tomorrow
rub me rub me right right so I introduced the
concept and because they it's too good it really
is too good to be in the majority of everyone's
hands I allow the the the interest to fade because
if I keep pumping it pumping and pumping it you'll
start start seeing the things that I just revealed
last week so because my son is interested and he
wants to document it I know that it'll hold your
attention longer if you're seeing the logic that
I'm going to explain as I explained last week
and him using it and then eventually seeing
him go with top step and then eventually pass his
combine and eventually get payouts you'll see that
the logic works not just in my hands and not just
in other people's hands but as a dad I want to see
him doing it in his own hands and then have the
rewards of being able to do it and repeating it
doesn't need to happen every single day Caleb but
overall if you have a net positive month because
in the beginning you're not going to have a net
positive every single week because there's going
to be a lot of this that you're going to have
hands off that he's got to do it and learn from
it and trust it he's making the right decisions
and when he doesn't make the right decisions you
have to feel that effect and then work through
that prog ress of it didn't work in my hands I
did something wrong not the stuff doesn't work
that you did it wrong and therefore you have
to grind through that and and as all of you are
going to be the same way with this I mean you're
all going to have those those hit and miss you're
going to have days where it just works like a hot
knife through butter it just cuts through easily
goes right to where you want it to go right away
and you're done you can go do whatever you want to
do other days you're going to have to really work
for it and I have learned over 30 plus years
the days that you really have to work for it
it's better for you to get out of the trade that
you're in if you're having a whole lot of mental
uh Capital spent on the outcome of the trade and
you're just worrying about it being right in your
favor it's actually a better exercise for you
to develop discipline just to close the trade
turn the charts off and go do something else
because what you're doing is you're burning
mental Capital you're worrying and stressing and
what you're doing also is you're triggering all
these stress hormones in your body and
I wore myself down as a Young Man doing
that if you spend every single day of the week and
and for some of you many hours each day obsessing
and worrying about what the Market's going to
do and really not knowing what to do or how to
behave when it does certain things and signaling
to you that okay it's done be content with it if
you don't adopt those protocols you're going
to stress yourself out and here's the thing I
have met tons of people that are profitable but
they're absolutely unhealthy and unhappy because
they're constantly trying to get more than what
they need I've seen many people go out there and
do exceedingly well intraday and they go in again
and they take another trade because it isn't good
enough for them they want to make more and I'm
trying to teach you have a mindset where if you
go out there and you do something once a day and
you get the experience from it if it's positive
wonderful if it's not positive now you have an
opportunity to study what you didn't do right or
what you didn't observe correctly those are the
two perspectives to hold not that you know the
stuff doesn't work or they they did it to you okay
I'll give you a perfect example I knew there was a
strong likelihood that these relative equal highs
could be retreaded to because that the CPI and PPI
numbers are coming out Tuesday and Wednesday and
the character istic of this morning session ahead
of those days tends to be a lot more of this type
of stuff back and forth back and forth back and
forth and then bump stop me and I said and then
once it does that good old Phill and take the
price back down to where I said you where it was
going to go and it did so I can get mad like I did
when I was 20 and say oh you so and so you did it
to me again or I can say you didn't beat me today
even though you took away the the majority of what
I was trying to do you didn't take everything from
me and that's the benefit of knowing where to take
partials because as soon as you take partials and
you run your stop to a position of covering any
costs you are in the closest thing to Nirvana
as a Trader because now the outcome of the trade
is no longer all that critical is it no because
because you've taken something out of the
trade you've locked in a position where even
if it were to come back on you you can't lose
you can't lose barring some crazy Gap you know
like that's always there but you technically
barring some crazy volatility Gap that would
be you know unrealistic to expect I guess it it
could happen now with all the all the stuff that's
going on over in Europe and Middle East to the
Brits last year when I was talking about watch
Britain watch the UK you're you're going to have
some crazy stuff happen are you paying attention
it's almost like uh reading price action isn't it
so just be careful over there and it's going to be
coming here and it's going to come to Canada and
we're all going to feel it but the point is you
can react to those types of stimuli where you get
stopped out prematurely and go back in and Hunt
try to do something extra because you didn't
get your full run if I uh if I pull this back
up this old high those are the relative equal
highs that the market was reaching for but this
is the the level of least importance to me what I
want to see it do is trade above these highs here
why because starting at time 7 a.m. my interest is
there so we go up we go down we rally back above
so the buy side is taken and just for good measure
it takes out the highs from the previous session
and then we break lower and we have a fair value
Gap okay and the market trades up into the fair
value Gap right there and I'm looking at how the
market wants to use old inefficiencies because I'm
thinking it's going to stay heavy and really work
towards this low a lot faster because it wants to
do the moves generally a little earlier when we
have big news on a Tuesday and Wednesday like
we have in arcademic calendar when do you trade
these early sessions ICT why are you why are you
sometimes taking trades before 9:30 opening BT or
before 10:00 Silver Bullet I've said this before
but this is the part where you write it down okay
if I have an economic calendar that has like these
big impactful event on the following trading day
then I'm going to try to take the trades early
because everybody's going to be in here trying to
do something at the opening bell and it's also a
Monday so because nobody blew up anything and we
went we didn't go thermonuclear over in the Middle
East everybody want to go in and take a lot of
Trades so there's going to be a lot of volatility
there's going to be a lot of interest in trades
right away and I want to be in when the Market's
the cleanest and what how is that going to be
determined well what I taught you last week at 7
o' to 8:00 I'm going to use that first 30 minutes
post 7 a.m. and that's here okay so here's 7 o'cl
to 7:30 right there okay so what did we form
that high that low that's why I'm delineating
those levels okay in case you have forgot last
last week's rules so we traded down below it
okay so now we're going to wait and see does
it want to come back up and upset these here
knowing full well that the new week opening Gap is
down here for this week August 11th that's Sunday
opening from Friday's closing settlement price
that's what the new week opening Gap is so since
it's below it and then the next new day opening
Gap is last Friday the 9th where is that down here
so all we're going to do for guidance all we're
going to do is follow the rules I gave you last
week we're going to wait for the market to be
made Jagged on the opposing side of where these
inefficiencies are isn't that easy all you're
doing is waiting for them to run up take out
the smooth areas right here and they ran through
the previous highs and then did what we break
lower and then we have displacement in here so
if we go back through all this price action here
we can then start looking for hang on one
second I thought I had my laptop plugged in
I'm in the in case the accoustics are acting
a little weird in the audio it's because I'm
inside the great room of my first floor of
the house so it's I have really really high
ceilings and I can hear it as I'm talking
sometimes it's like eoy I'm in a big uh a
big room here so hang on one second let
me plug this in before I lose the power
speaking of power uh last week we had the remnants
of hurricane Debbie come through and the wind was
kind of whipping up so we lost power for a moment
until I had all my generators turned back on since
I wanted to leave the session last week or last
Friday at 10:00 I had no interest in in trying
to log back in and I had to take care of what
I had to take care of so I wasn't going on this
the site or Community post that how to tell you
what was going on because I had things to take
care of but anyway um we had this inefficiency
here and going back over through all this see
all this right here all this inefficiency even
though we went back and forth through it here
I'm aiming for all that in there and then we have
this inefficiency I traded into it there right at
the bottom right there you see that I want to get
in the trade some of you may see what I'm teaching
and say okay I can see the fair value gaps I can
see the inversion fair value gaps he's talking
about I can see um I can see the order blocks okay
I can see it but where do I get in it well if I'm
trying to trade and get short I'm going to use
the lowest prob the lowest probable resistance
in terms of getting in the trade wordss I'm going
to use the lowest threshold level on a fair value
Gap that I think is going to hold price down
because I have TR many times to be very very
very precise with the stuff I understand and know
what the Market's likely to do more times than
it's not and I've watched my limit orders should
it prints the price that should have given me a
fill but it doesn't do it and it runs the other
direction and to me as a 20-year-old that used
to really make me angry because it made me like
you know come on this is like I took it personal
I literally took it personal and I'm assuming
you know like in this live stream you have to
assume that they're just simply not going to let
you have it especially if you're if you're right
a lot if you're right a lot you're standing out
there's going to be a lot of other people that
doing that's doing well but they have an issue
with just you I'm not saying you I'm talking
about me specifically they can they can't stop
all of you but if they stop me that discourages
anybody from trying to follow me or the logic that
I teach see the difference so take out the king
I'm not saying I'm the king but take out the king
and the pawns will fall so if I share my stop loss
orders if I share my ideas of where I'm actually
going to try to get into a trade I'm actually
creating liquidity and even a larger Bullseye so
I try to do things in a manner where I don't want
to draw too much attention to it but you can see
all the logic is still here but entering on the
inefficiency over here extending it through what
is it what is this right here what is that right
there this inefficiency what is it what kind of
classification is that well for for folks that
think they understand fair value gaps and whatnot
they think when it trades up there it's going to
sell off not if you don't have the information
I'm teaching you because what are we expecting
we're expecting these relative equal highs to be
taken in as much as these levels up here traded to
go back and listen to the lectures last week if
you're if you're watching this one and didn't
watch the last last week's lecture or skipped or
didn't really listen to any of the things I said
and you just watched and maybe were bored
to death and turned off the thing because
you think it's not of any interest go back and
really go through it and listen to it and take
notes Scout's over there snoring
you'll probably hear her it is a
reclaimed fair value got meaning that see
when the narrative and the time are not in
an agreement even though it trades back up to
these inefficiencies you're thinking just like
everybody thought a down Clos candle every single
time a down Clos candle's touched the Market's
going to go up that's what everybody over on baby
Pips thought when I was first teaching about the
idea of my order block and because they tried to
do those types of things and assumed that okay
it's going to go up it's going to go down based
on these candlesticks that ICT was talking about
and when they failed in their own hands because
they didn't understand the narrative they didn't
understand the logic and how to actually use them
they run away and say well it doesn't work and
then you have a lot of people that are doing that
and you have new people coming in and they have
an interest and say I hear a lot about this guy
named ICT and these smart money Concepts and they
start seeing other people's opinions and because
they're lazy they'll take those opinions and say
well you know they're saying they lost money it
doesn't work so therefore I'm going to avoid that
because I don't want to be prudent and actually
do the investigation myself and try to use it in
my own hands and see if there's any valid use to
this information so therefore that's why you get
the the the stigma that's around me but then
for the people that actually go through the
process of learning it doing the right way and
spending time in their own charts weighing out
the rules and things I've taught I did give
guidance but the problem is I've warned you
ahead of time it's going to take you a whole lot
more time that you wanted to take and then when
you start spending that time and you really make
good use of that time journaling and seeing the
examples of what it looks like you will see that
the times that in your own hands that will fail as
long as you understand the correct narrative and
you're understanding the elements of time when
these things should happen you'll see that they
work a lot more than they'll fail in your hands
meaning that there's an edge there and with
experience you'll start saying okay well if
if I see where it didn't work in my hands here
here here here what was I doing those days or
those instances that I was unaware of seeing
when it was not likely to pan out for me and
then that's experience that I can't encapsulate
in a book I can't encapsulate that in a lecture
there are things that are going to be much more
useful to you because I don't know where your
shortcomings are in reading the information is in
price I don't know that and you can tell me in an
email and I have lots of people try to do that and
they want me to fix their their their hangup and
I don't know all the things that you're feeling
and what you're thinking what you're fearful of
what you're excited about what your motivation
is all of those things are going to be impactful
for you either taking the trade or not taking
the trade and you're trying to rush through all
those discoveries about yourself and that's the
under that's the undermining that that's going to
happen in your development but you're going to
fault something else or me or or something you
know something out outside yourself is going
to be the external factor for why you didn't
find success and to me that's unfortunate because
that's the that's the prevailing mindset of most
people today old and young because they're lazy
and I know you don't like hearing that you think
I'm being condescending but it's the truth because
you're not hearing me when I tell you you're going
to have to do this for months okay months and
you should be demoing okay for a minimum of 6
months before you ever trade with a real account
ever because you don't know enough about yourself
you don't know what these tools are going to do in
your own hands some of you may have a wild run of
just everything's working out good and you don't
have the lessons that come through hardship that
are going to come eventually and then you have to
discover how to grind through that and refer back
to when it was working in your hands don't throw
the baby out with the bath water and that's what
everybody wants to do they want to find the next
hot thing I am the hot thing okay because this is
the market this is what the Market's going to
do every day every week the problem is there's
going to be times where the deck is stacked it's
stacked the deck is stacked mid game against even
me that's manual intervention in other words you
ever been to casino you ever been at the casino
and you're playing Blackjack and the dealer and
and you maybe couple other people are playing
and you just got a good hot run and all of a
sudden you're making money or someone at the
table's making money and then they'll come out
and they'll change the shoe okay the shoe is that
little box they have multiple decks in okay that
deck or those those Decks that is a stack okay
it's designed to run out a certain favor of odds
in The house's hand the casino's hand knowing how
to count cards gives you an advantage it doesn't
tell tell you every order of that that shoe of
of cards it just gives you an advantage of how
many cards are left in that shoe but if they know
because they have the eye in the sky that means
there's people up there watching there's cameras
watching if they know there's a man or woman at a
table that constantly is just cleaning up they're
going to come out and they're going to change
the shoe they're not running out of cards but
they're bringing a new shoe there which messes
up your count you have if you're a car counter
if you're smart you're getting up you're casting
your chips and you're going home and you're going
to go to another casino and you won't come back to
that one for months because now they they they're
on to you okay these tells these little things
where it tells you in the marketplace that you
are not likely to have the advantage right now
something been changed okay if you watch the
movie The Matrix when they see a Deja Vu moment
that means there's a glitch in The Matrix right
something has changed according to the script in
that movie well the same thing in price action if
you see something that upsets what is normal are
you going to go in and just say I'm not going to
pay attention to that it's it's not a warning to
me I'm going to I'm better than this I'll overcome
it that's what I did when I was 20 now because
I know I've been doing it a long time I know how
I can hurt myself I can hurt myself in this so to
prevent myself from being overly emotional or too
psychologically committed to the outcome needing
it to be in my favor for the sake of being right
these are all things I had to wrestle with I had
to create protocols and say okay where were my
losing trades where were the times where I blew
my account where were the things that caused me
to go into a tail spin and I couldn't find the
rhythm of getting back into finding a series
of winning trades again I had you you find that
by keeping a journal and being honest in it but
not beating yourself up but it was easy for me to
see where I was hurting myself because when I was
journaling initially as a 20-year-old all of those
journals were highly toxic and directed towards
myself as a failure so it'd be very easy for me
to highlight what I was thinking and most of it
was relationship and I didn't like where I was
working at and it's probably for some of you that
that's the the very Central tenant of why you're
overdoing it you're pushing too hard because you
want to get out of that uncomfortable State this
is the stuff that nobody wants to hear about
because it's a reminder that these things exist
in your personal life too and you're like this
has nothing to do like I didn't ask to come and
listen to the do Phil okay I want to hear how to
trade but you don't realize until you go through
it that those are the things that are going to be
impactful and resistance to you being successful
because you're you're going to tap into them
subconsciously and by having rules about knowing
when I'm not going to trade again I'm not going to
go back in even if the market does this or that
because I know the economic calendar tomorrow
and Tuesday I'm sorry Wednesday Tuesday and
Wednesday have such a huge weight of volatility
in the in the offing it's going to happen tomorrow
guaranteed we're gonna have lots of movement on
Tuesday lots of movement on Wednesday and a lot of
folks are sitting back and they're going to wait
for those reports they're going to pass and then
they'll start putting money in the marketplace or
taking money out in in respect to whatever the
market does as a response to those data points
but if you don't have rules and protocols in place
that you know this is what you're trying to do and
this is what you're trying to avoid you're going
to be aimless like a like a like a cell booat out
there without a Rudder wherever the wind blows you
and are you in control of your trading when it's
like that I can tell you I was not in control of
my trades when I was like that at all and then I
was always forced to have an emotional response
that was always exaggerated and when I was right
it was yeah it was super skill and when I was
wrong it was the end of the world and I wanted
to quit trading I never wanted to do it again
and I had to convince myself by going back and
look at the times where I did it right and that
encouraged me CU I didn't have a ICT talking to
me I didn't have these cheerleading sessions or
guidance okay I had a couple videos that I knew
verbatim and I couldn't couldn't get anything out
of them anymore to keep me going so I had to refer
back to the times I did it correctly and then also
treating my opportunities where I did it wrong as
a means of this is my goal to figure out what I
was doing wrong there notice the language I use
there I didn't say how the market doesn't work
and or the concepts don't work I was being very
personal about the opportunity of discovering
where I was doing it wrong and in my opinion
as a mentor I see that a lot I see it in older
students that have not been profitable yet and
they have those tenants they have those Central
tenants they don't like to hear it because they
want to be able to say well no it's this it's
that it's you you didn't teach me right or you
didn't teach me the secret this and secret that
again here I am on YouTube teaching the very
things that are absolutely going to cause these
markets to do what they're doing based on time and
price and it's happening again just like every
other lecture series I ever did just like the
paid mentorship videos I uploaded on the YouTube
channel that stuff doesn't fall out of favor it's
not going to get stale it's it's the it's what
the Market's going to do but because you have
so many things like a candy store in front of you
how are you going to use the information I can't
realistically force you into a mold but I am in
certain aspects because he's my son I'm leaning on
the authority of being his dad when I say you're
going to trade the morning session knowing full
well that this will at least give him a Baseline
and then if he wants to change up and go to trade
in the London session or trading the afternoon
session in in the US he can make that decision
because he'll have the same protocols that he uses
here just at a different time of day and I'm not
willing to make changes I don't want to sit up at
London I don't want to do that all over again I
don't want to do that so since this is you know
second time for him to go through this it's Dad
saying okay I'm not willing to make changes to my
schedule I'll do it once to show you the logic and
for all of you that are here wanting to learn and
you have an interest that time of day but you'll
see that nothing's really changing it's just
you're applying the same concepts of measuring
time determining where the liquidity is and then
waiting for this disruption and the waters are
made Jagged or rough wherever it's smooth okay
you're waiting for that jaggedness to come in
and if you look at what has been shown here what
I traded off of is these relative equal highs
this up closed candle I'm anticipating that as a
bearish order block why because it's going above
the relative equal highs we had the market
trade lower it went beyond the opening price
listen folks this is for order block fans okay
my order block does not require the trade below
the wick if I understand the narrative and this
talk a little bit about narrative this morning
my interest was being short I wanted to be short
because we had a nice run all last week and we
really didn't see TGIF on Friday I talked about
it with Caleb I said I believe it could do it it
could it could potentially have a retracement as
much as 20 to 30% of the weekly range it didn't
do that they kept pressing in into Friday's
close okay wonderful so how do I trade with
that information knowing that TGIF did not form
on a Friday Friday if the market didn't retrace
20 to 30% of previous week's range and if it's up
Clos week if I see that that's likely to happen
but it doesn't deliver let's say I took a trade
on Friday and I was trying to get short and it
just didn't Peter it it just it didn't pan out
and it petered out and maybe it caused a losing
trade or maybe it didn't give me a fill and or it
just didn't give me what I thought was going to
happen the the end result is what was lacking TGIF
did not Mater materialize and manifest itself on
a Friday wonderful so fast forward to Monday if
you're going to trade on Monday and this is true
even if there is CPI PPI on Tuesday and Wednesday
or later in the week you can use this information
anticipate the likelihood of 20 to 30% of the
previous week's range occurring on Monday's
trading so it's TG but the the actual retracement
of it is deferred to the following following week
in this case it's Monday do you need 20% of the
uh weekly previous week's range to be profitable
no but it's one more little box to check that
probabilities are better in the short than going
long so then when you start mapping out your your
day 7 o'clock in the morning as I outlined last
week determine what your initial high for buy side
is and what your initial low is for your sell side
wait for them to be taken and if you have the
weekly Gap the new week opening Gap and a new
day opening gaps are below price and you have that
function of determining okay well it could retrace
into some of previous weeks range you have a lot
of things going in your favor that point to what
the initial run will offer you a range so that
way you can determine some kind of directional
bias that bias doesn't have to be the daily range
bias where you're predicting the Clos is above
below the opening price remember it's session
bias too and you need to be able to determine
that first Caleb you you need to be focusing
on in the morning session I want to know where
a run could form that is measurable it's
something that I'm able to participate in
and it's one-sided okay wonderful if you can
see that we're above the new week opening Gap
and and we have new day opening gaps below the
market at 7:00 or 8:00 or 9:00 at the opening
bell then you know the weight of the market
is going to be pressed to the downside so the
Market's going to discover probe into discount
arrays that's something that's below the market
price and or seek inefficiencies that are deep
retracements into previous week's range or just
taking out short-term lows that can be determined
from a 15-minute time frame okay so as the market
was trading on this Candlestick right here we
opened down here after a down closed candle
that closed below the opening price of that up
closed candle let me zoom in make sure you can
see so this opening price all I need to do is see
price trade below that and on the time frame I'm
seeing this Candlestick which is the one minute
chart that closing price right there validates
this is a bearish order block all I need to do is
trade on an uptick well the next candle we open
below that open price so I already have that
F here because it could have opened down here
or it could have opened above it I want to see it
open below this and then trade up where's my fill
see it at the opening price here's the opening
and there's where it's opening on this candle
and trades up I'm selling short when the Market's
going up okay stop loss goes to rejection block
which is the close on the order block so we have a
little bit of heat here not much what's it trading
to the initial buy side liquidity that's these
relative equal highs goes there too so I know
I can I can absorb a little bit of heat it's
going to come back and use this information
back there because there is an algorithm I know
you don't like to hear it but I'm going to prove
it to you every day and the market trades again
Lower and then we have a gap in here so again
as I teach you're not using the wick of that
Candlestick right there you're using the body's
close why because it's different and there's a
separation between the next candle's opening so
there's a volume imbalance there so you have to
incorporate that with your your measurement of
your Gap and then by doing that you'll get a
true consequent encouragement level which is
what you see all these candlesticks touching here
right in here now truth be told this is the part
where you're going to if you don't like me or if
you're looking for something do the gotcha stuff
or oh he's lying here I had Piper sitting to the
left of me in my morning room and I had my laptop
on me and I was trying to draw all this stuff on
here and then I had my cursor sitting right over
here just like that and I was moving her and her
claws which I have to trim them back on her her
front paws I didn't get a chance to finish her
last week when we were doing her paws we got her
back done but she she doesn't like to have it
done so I had to wait well they were stabbing
into me as she was pouncing on because she don't
want the other puppies to get near me and I know
this is probably boring you but long story short
because I was pushing her away I I use a mouse
pad my laptop like I don't have an external M uh
Mouse I it's like a touchpad I prefer them I I
like them I don't like external Mouse uh I don't
like it it's just the way it is I have to use it
obviously when I'm using my my screens upstairs
but if I'm talking to you if I'm executing or
managing something on the laptop um I prefer it I
don't have a a little mouse that's external when I
pushed her away I ended up touching the the pad
and put me in there and I had to I had to deal
with it I had to accept it and there's no logic in
here that justifies that fill except for I pushed
the pad without wanting to do so but the trade
is still viable I know that it's giving me the
information I want to see is look at the Wix here
it only goes above it by one tick it only goes
above it by one tick okay wonderful the bodies are
proving to me that we're only really respecting
the lower half of this Gap see that let me take
that let me take the thing I'll put it right back
on in a second give me a moment you see see how
the bodies are showing how it's just respecting
the lower half you want to see my PD arrays and
my inefficiencies and fair value gaps whether
it be cellid balance bid efficiency or bid balance
cellid efficiency you want to see half of them not
respected because that in itself is Insight that's
how you know the algorithm is doing exactly what
you want it to do see when I talk about signatures
and price and what the algorithm is doing what the
algorithm is doing this and when the algorithm is
doing that it sounds like [__] if you don't want
to believe there's an algorithm but then when you
start seeing me execute and it's the same logic
repeating over and over again or I'm calling
individual candlesticks then suddenly you're
met with argument that you have to contend with
I don't give two shits if you believe there's an
algorithm I'm enjoying the fact that I'm rubbing
your nose in it but there are times where these
inefficiencies will come back entirely close in
and still go lower I do not like that I don't
like to see that in my trades I don't like to see
that in a trade that I'm waiting to see form and
for instance say I'm trying to um anticipate
this as a return back up into it to go short
which is what I was wanting to do I really wanted
to execute as it hit this that's what I wanted I
wanted consequent encouragement I really wanted
that fill but because I'm allowing the dog and I
talked about this last week when I don't let him
up in my trading office but I'm down here being
with them otherwise if she's not in the house my
wife and the we only have my youngest living with
me and my nieces so if they're not here with
her they're going to howl and cry try to get
my attention and that's going to be distracting
you'll hear them in the background I won't be able
to mute them because they're going to be howling
because they want to be with me Piper is the one
that loves me the most and she's trying to get on
my lap and I pushed the the laptop in her away and
I did and executed one I said crap so that's what
that fill was in in here it was not me trying to
get into a trade based on any kind of logic it
was just one of those things that happened in
real life okay it's going to happen to you but
when it does what do you do in the beginning if
you don't know these things if you don't know how
to trade and hold on to a trade or trust a logic
as soon as you realize you did something that
you shouldn't have done your best learning curve
to experience is to close that trade and then see
all right this is how I would still manage it and
what has it done it completely disarms you you
don't have the weight of it has to be right it
has to pan out in your favor because now you're
stressing about oh I got into a trade or I part
I partially pyramided another position size in
this trade idea and now I'm working about this is
a mistake versus watching what is price doing okay
so the signature is is you want to see the upper
half when you're looking at a Cy or a inversion
fair value Gap that should act as resistance
or if you are using a reclaimed fair value Gap
that's a premium array a premium array you want
to see the upper half of the inefficiencies or
gaps you want to see them leave that open that's
how you know the algorithm is respecting number
one the PD array and it's also telling you that
you're going to see a measurable displacement in
your favor now right away you should be getting
this warm and fuzzy moment goinging over you right
now because that's the stuff that's the stuff that
I never wanted to teach that's the stuff that is
not printing in price so it's not in it's not in
your Candlestick you want to see the things that
are not in the candlesticks materialize that means
where there's an inefficiency okay how do I know
when certain gaps are not going to fill oh I go
into everyone that I'm referring to to with a hope
that they're not going to fill because that's the
algorithmic signature that I want to see in that
now if it goes up and trades to the top of it then
I need to see an immediate response and rejection
there and then it has to displace and I won't
touch it until it gives us another fair value
gap on that time frame or in this case is one
minute chart it has to be 15 seconds 30 seconds
something to that effect and then I'll I'll use a
fair value gap on that time frame because I've
already missed the rejection but I waited and
looked for it at the top of the fair value app
and once it starts at displ lower then I'll just
get into a lower time frame and get in sync with
it and it's fine I ain't worried about it that's
the price delivery Continuum theory that I was
introducing last week I don't need to be in the
entries based on the time frames I'm studying if I
miss it because sometimes I'm just being a little
stubborn and I I'm trying to be very finessing
about the where I'm trying to get in at I'm trying
to impress either myself or some of you sometimes
I won't get my fill and then I have to go and use
a a lower time frame to get in sync with it that's
fine it's very forgiving when you know what you're
looking for but that that was what that was okay
and then I have this inefficiency here which also
has this what's this Candlestick what's this green
Candlestick right here it is a bearish order block
just like that one so this opening price did this
candle close below it once it passed through yep
so that validates that as a bearish order block
so if I can see price create these areas where
there's an inefficiency and then I can label the
very specific change in the state of delivery
which is what the opening price is on every order
block then what I'll do is I'm watching I'm not
doing this physically you should do it when you
start studying price but with these things in mind
when price starts to trade back up into it as it's
trading into it okay I'm going to hammer that as a
short I'm not going to worry about if it fills me
with slippage at the low of the Gap I'm trying to
get inside of this order block between its opening
price and it's low but I have to trade it as soon
as it gets there the first time I don't care how
much heat and time I have once I get in it because
I know I have the framework of this right here
this Gap and the midpoint of this Candlestick
which is what mean threshold some of you said
consequent encroachment consequent encroachment is
a gap okay anytime there's a gap or inefficiency
the midpoint is consequent encroachment if there's
a specific range that's formed by the order block
singular candle it's mean threshold okay so the
midpoint of that essentially it's around here
okay so what is it doing it goes right there
so it goes just outside of the the fair value Gap
but I'm referring to the midpoint of that Gap how
do you know how to place your stop losses where
they're at ICT when you put those stop losses in
and you're putting it and it looks like it's
going get real close to it but it never goes
there it's this type of stuff behind me I'm I'm
I'm measuring all of the potential for the market
to respect certain levels with this logic and
if it trades just to the top of the fair value
Gap okay what is it really reaching for it's not
that it has to go back to this it's trading back
to the order block because that's what starts this
run lower notice that so that takes us through the
minor cell side liquidity here why is it a minor
cell side because it's a low inside of this low to
that high when I think it's going to go down here
and I'm aiming down here in this layered cell side
and if it's going to go there how far could
it go it can go down to the new week opening
Gap and if it expands through that what's
the next new day opening Gap it's August
9th down here and as I told you my interest in
this is in the mid part of that would I if I was
still in the trade would I have captured this low
no and then trading down to this low would I held
on first there no I'm not interested because
I understand what's forming it's making the
market Jagged down here it's enticing people keep
selling short it's going to keep dropping no it's
not it's done its work and then it trades down to
last Friday's new day opening G and then shows a
willingness I want to go higher and then trades
right back over top of all this and here's where
we're at notice I'm no longer interested if it
trades at that level here why because I have
rules I have protocols I have understanding and I
know when to stop I need to stop pull the plug and
the market will still gate someone someone could
very well be long in here great did you understand
that the market was going to do the selloff here
did you participate in anything going short there
are you mad about not catching that initial run
see these are all things that you're going to
have to learn how to cope with and replace it
with instead of toxic thinking like that saying
okay well these are the things I've done correctly
and this is panning out for me and I'm growing in
my understanding and I'm making progress it may
be monetary and it may not be monetary initially
maybe just in your experience you know gaining
each day and the week that you do these things
the exercise and build in your understanding
or it may be demo profits that you're going to
use as a means to lean on because when you first
start trading with real money when you take losing
trades what reference do you have if you haven't
made a a run of profitable trades what what
experience do you have to lean on to encourage
yourself the demo trading where you did it right
you you need to find the sugar in it otherwise
it's going to be hard for you to stick with it
it's so easy to quit this industry very very easy
to quit it there's so many things that's going to
cause you to second guess yourself doubt it and
just the work ethic that's required is going to
keep most of you from ever becoming profitable and
it's not because you don't have a good Mentor it's
not because you don't have Concepts being taught
to you that are useful it's because you aren't
ready that's really what it is but anyway the uh
the gravitational draw on price are based on the
lot that I gave you last week so again I I tipped
my hand to you last week in a on a grand level
every single time I was on Twitter every single
time I am in other people's live streams and I'm
pointing to specific levels this is the logic I'm
using I said it last week I'm saying it again here
I am trying to tell you with no uncertain terms
that this is such a huge Advantage some of you
already know I mean you sent me emails and whatnot
saying this is wild like this like this is really
like I can see it now right and that's how it
should be but you're still going to do it wrong
eventually and then you're going to get mad and
you're going to try to do something to fix that
one day problem that one day error that you caused
in your own hands and then that's going to create
a toxic response to you being responsive to an
emotional or psychological impact of you doing
it wrong you don't want to go home with a losing
trade you're going to try to fix it or you got a
little bit of a draw down or you got in a trade
you didn't take a partial and then you're mad
because you let it turn back on you and it's a
small loss or the fo loss because you didn't move
a stop loss and it's going to cause you to want
to do something to fix it and my advice to you
is don't go home with the loss realize it take it
home sleep on it and feel what it feels like and
you're going to find out unless the Lord says no
the sun's going to come up tomorrow the markets
are going to be trading and this stuff will still
be in the charts but something happens where we
lose all rational thinking and we just go nuts
and they call it tilt where you just completely
just are out of your mind and you're just trying
to do anything and you don't even know why you're
getting in a trade and all of a sudden you cause
severe draw down or blow the account or Lo lose
the funded account or fail the combine I see this
so many times so many individuals out there that
are in other people's live streams are saying oh
just blew my account again or the live streamers
themselves are blowing their accounts and they're
showing you new accounts that they just started
up because they're not consistently voting on
the same ones but there's people flocking to
them watching that and their only real interest
is is they're going to give out a a discounted
affiliate link not that they can trade not that
they have any useful information coming out of
their mouth it's say give us a code give us a a
discount code I'm not going to do that I'm trying
to give you the how to do this on your own so that
way you don't have to watch anybody live streaming
and this is no knock against anybody else but
that's why I teach I teach people to be their
own independent thinker but there's also going to
be a big huge crowd of new people going to watch
other people doing it I watch other people
do it I don't ever take a trade with another
live streamer doing something that I think well
that's a good idea I didn't see that coming let
me let me join in and do their trade I don't do
that I'm never doing that I'm there looking for
their crowd their cheerleaders in the in the
chat window I want to see their response and
if it's diametrically opposed to the things I'm
teaching you here well guess what that means it's
Candy Land it's literally like walking over to a
candy I mean walking over to a baby and taking the
candy out of its hand I know they're going to cry
I know they're going to squeal and whine and say
you're a jerk ICT you called it right and I lost
money so now I'm going to troll you I'm going to
do this I'm going to do that and when they watch
other people they don't necessarily have to be my
stuff but other people that had the balls The Moxy
to stand out there and tell the world what they're
doing and trade and push the button in front
of other people I got a lot of respect for that
but they get trolled they get trolled for doing
something the people that are trolling them can't
do or would never do and they're miserable but I
love that because that proves that I'm going to
get an emotional sentiment reading by that group
of people and when they have trolls in their
comment section and other people are biting back
at those trolls and they're saying the Market's
going to go here the Market's going to what did
they do they emotionally wagered they've committed
themselves so I'm I'm literally teaching you how
I use other live streamers chat window and my my
point in telling you this is start looking at it
when when it does these types of things when you
start seeing it okay it's the perfect sentiment
indicator when people are showing you their hand
and it's emotionally driven and it's a lot
of emojis or it's very very pointed language
against someone or the market they're telling you
you that they are completely letting go of the
steering wheel closing their eyes and flooring
the gas pedal and if they're saying that the
Market's going to go up and I'm anticipating
it going down and that criteria is there and
it's it's it's uncanny they're doing that right
when it's trading into a fair value Gap or it's
trading right above a short-term high that should
be upsetting Bops and they're bullish I'm going
long I'm long now I'm I'm long 15 contracts they
telling you they're traded with a funded account
they not passed the funded account yet and they're
trying to make it all in that one trade perfect
perfect that is the perfect scenario for ICT
as a sentiment indicator because now I'm going
short but everything I'm doing behind the scenes
is what I've been teaching you last week my son
Caleb sits here and watches me do this okay and
I'll say it's it's going to do this it's going
to do that it's going to hit this candle and
he's like man like it's literally doing every
right I don't know why you're surprised um your
dad's ICT right and when I watch other people and
they're just staring at the charts they don't know
what they're looking for and they're talking and
they're talking and they're talking when there's
opportunities there's really opportunities right
there and then when I'm in their chat and I say
you note this buy side or note this sell side I've
literally told you where the Market's going to
go and you can use any retail logic entry pattern
after that to get in sync with it and write it up
there or write it down there that that's that's
what I'm doing but what was I doing to come to
those conclusions what I taught last week and what
you saw here today now when I when I get stopped
out and you watched me get stopped out in profit
there was not a loss is it I wasn't able to stay
on the trade the entire entire run do go back in
and rush and get mad try to get back no I don't
need to save face I don't need to fix a problem
there's no problem I understand that the mechanics
on a day like today ahead of CPI and PPI numbers
back toback Tuesday and Wednesday it's a Monday I
didn't have TGIF deliver on Friday okay then it's
going to be deferred it's going to retrace
back into the range during Monday's trading
especially if we open up at 7:00 in the morning
here and we punch above the marketplace to upset
what relative equal highs
here where was that formed in
London so I know that it's probable that it's
going to go up there it doesn't need to all it
needed to do was trade above these relative
equal highs because that's what formed after
7 o'clock in the morning just like I taught
last week the rules are not morphing I'm not
changing I'm not cherry-picking
anything everything is the same
thing every single day and that's exactly what
your trading has to be if you're trying to
change settings and you're optimizing [__]
because you know you got you're trying to
look good in front of other people if you're
constantly optimizing you have substandard
[__] I it's 7 o'clock folks you know 7 o'clock
isn't changing when it's 7 o'clock it does when
you go to different time frames or time zones
in the world but I've already told everybody
calibrate everybody's calendar everyone's
clock everyone's charts have to be ICT time
it's the same ICT time it's the same ICT [__]
Channel everything's going to be the same thing
every single day you're not trying to reinvent
the wheel you're not trying to make it better
you're not trying to optimize you're not trying
to change settings there's no [__] settings
do you understand the the the value in that at 7
o'cl you're going to delineate that as a marking
point and then you're going to wait for relative
equal highs and relative equal lows is isn't that
[__] delicious isn't that delicious that it's
not going to hide from you they cannot hide it
from you how are they going to keep 7 o'cl from
hiding from they're they're somehow going to hide
7 o'clock like you can't look at the [__] time
on your watch that set to New York local time like
you're somehow gonna just forget that 7 o'clock is
on the on the front of the the face of the clock
they can't hide that then what are you waiting for
you're waiting for relative equal highs and lows
to form and you're waiting for them to be breathed
and here's the thing if they have the market in a
premium oh you were talking about that in
Winship videos Michael could you peel back
that onion a little bit more sure sure I can
last week I told you if we're in the time of
day 7 o'clock 8:00 and 9 in there you're
looking for relative equal highs to form
if listen if we're above new week opening Gap
and clustering of new day opening gaps all of
last week's new day opening gaps where
are they in proximity to where we are
here where are they where's price in relationship
to this week's new week opening that at 7 o'clock
we're above it the previous new week's opening G
we above it so the algorithm is going to do what
it's going to seek fair value in a discount
so how can it mathematically and use time go
back to a random [__] point unless it has a
very specific reach to time date day of week
week of month month of year and where are these
inefficiencies when time of trading begins and
ends oh my oh my that's delicious
isn't it my dogs like it hang on I
think it's probably Amazon give me one second here
I got to tell you I'll be honest with you
really I enjoy these live streams because
I don't have to go back back and edit
anything and I'm really loving this new
ICT where I'm not worried about you know all
the little quirky things that used to bother
me so anyway when we have these uh these
signatures I outlined last week and we
start at predetermined price times price
times times of the day which are what I gave
you last week we're measuring we're waiting
what are you waiting for ICT at 7 o'cl what
are we looking for well you're
looking for a directional run okay
and if we are starting at 7 o'clock here and we
have the new week opening gap for this particular
week of trading which forms on August 11th
Sunday's opening price relative to Friday's
closing price if we're above that that's one
checkbox that is likely to displace and move and
deliver sell size delivery that means it's going
to enter a sell program it means it's going to
drop the price is going to have a sustained price
run lower it's further likely to occur if you have
new day opening gaps clustering below where price
starts at 7 o'clock well you have your Friday new
day opening Gap and all the ones below it and
you have last week's previous new week opening
gap down here see that so the likely the draw down
into these levels wonderful so now you have the
first elements to building your understanding of
bias so you're not looking to go long even if the
market Springs higher and takes off and has this
a real huge Dynamic price run I'm not thinking
I'm probably wrong I'm waiting for that to fizzle
and and run out which is going to occur above old
highs that formed after 7 o'cl so I'm waiting for
relative equal highs to form and then I'm waiting
for price to pierce above it when that happens
I'm not afraid I'm literally high on goofballs
I'm looking for the opportunity to see the price
go below it and it does right there that validates
that as a bearish order block not because it
traded above London's High that's not it it's
it's not it it ran stops above London's high so
now someone's going to call it the [__] what
they call the fu candle it's an Institutional
candle you [__] clowns there's no such thing
as an Institutional candle okay you [__] multi
multi-level marketing [__] you Liars man you are
[__] Liars come out here and call every [__]
candle like I do do that then you'll have then
you'll prove that you have something hindsight
[__] relative equal highs okay it goes above
that and then shows me it proves to me that this
change in the state of delivery that opening price
on that candle I want to be at that price or
between the low that candle's wick on that
candle anywhere near that's my sweet spot that's
where I'm trying to trade but my risk has to be
defined as much as the midpoint or mean threshold
of that order block it does not need to be up
here man this is some good [__] I see damn this
is good yes I'm cooking out all week come back I
got some good [__] coming but that opening price
that's my entry on that candle I don't have them
up here do sorry I'm sitting here acting like
you can see the prices again here's the opening
price and that's the fill okay that's the logic
being used and then in here that's this human
error pushing the button and I was looking at
Piper thinking man you're messing up a perfect
illustration today but I love her anyway and then
the market trades with this fair value Gap and
we have this order block as well so the opening
price on an up closed candle when the market is
in a sell program that means there's going to
be sell side delivery that means the Market's
going to be in a protracted delivery lower it's
moving lower it's going down for a specific reason
for inefficiencies that are in a discount and or
sell stops which is sells side liquidity so what
does that mean I want to be selling short when
the market returns into any inefficiency or up
at the the butt end of an upclose candle because
that's a bearish order block okay so we have this
Candlestick right there you see that look at that
Phil what's it doing I'm going to use the lowest
threshold entry the easy one the one I know I'm
going to get I'm not going to worry about not
getting it because of a limit order not filling
what is it it's the low of that fair value gap on
that Cy right there right here this Candlestick
right there defined by this candlestick's High I
want to use that candlestick's high I'm
using that as my point of reference to
get into the trade knowing full well that this
Candlestick right here is a bearish order block
but I have to afford myself the likelihood of
it touching this fair value Gap again notice
that so am I going to adjust the stop loss
because this Fair B Gap formed and I went in
here and added more am I going to roll the stop
loss aggressively because it's it's afforded me
another entry no and when I add to it here am I
going to trade and aggressively lower my stop loss
simply because I went into a trade no I have
to then wait for the market to roll out of this
after it's proven it's it's doing what I wanted
to do the bodies are being kept at the high of
that fair value Gap right there and essentially
the midpoint of this order block which is mean
threshold so first time hearing this if you're
a first-time viewer right away this is [__] to
you and you're going looking for overball oversold
indicators and moving averages that's what you're
looking for you're looking for a signal service
and I want you to leave because I have no interest
in dealing with people that are like that I want
to broom you quickly okay when I teach I'm going
to filter out the chaff because if you really
want to learn how to do this you're taking notes
you're listening and you're listening for logic
that repeats and you're going to [__] hear me
say this at nauseum it's going to repeat a lot
you repeat yourself so much go [__] yourself
comment boy because I'm teaching I want to prove
that what I'm doing is a repeating logic it's a
repeating logic that you have to have ingrained
in your understanding and when you're watching
price because if it's not part of your intellect
if it's not part of your bacular if it's not part
of your daily technical vocabulary then you're
going to [__] fail aren't you but guess what
if I'm constantly bloviating on about how this
is this is what it is and this is what it isn't
this is what it is and this is what it isn't and
it's never changing it's never morphing in than
something new then it's scientifically proven
nine out of 10 doctors will [__] approve that
IC he's got his [__] together and it's going to
repeat so therefore you have no excuse not to be
doing this stuff and observing it and logging it
and looking for these signatures to be in price
action that's the experience that you're lacking
that's what overcomes the fear and the anxiety
and the worrisome thoughts that you're thinking
you're thinking the algorithm is going to stop
working because here I am I'm teaching it live
in front of everybody and now more people are
going to learn it and they're going to change the
algorithm no they're not they're not okay they're
not because this is the science of how price is
booked so if this is what price is going to do
are they going to be able to change time 7 o'clock
8 never going to come no it's always going to be
there London session is always going to be there
the New York sessions am's going to be there the
PM session in New York's going to be there and you
saw last week how to deal with the Asian sessions
if you want to trade that time of day you may
do it wrong but they're not changing [__] okay
so anyway as um as I was watching price action
I mentioned how because these were relatively
equal what is it those are relative equal
Highs at 9:00 if I had not taken a trade
say I was not in a trade say I didn't have
one and I wasn't stopped out prematurely in
gain in profit this is your 9:00 setup right
here isn't that your relative equal highs
isn't this price run from here up up to there
opposing where you think price May draw to or
I was taking your attention here and I told you
the new week opening Gap last week that's where
it's going to draw to any clustering of new day
opening gaps that's your Friday new day opening
Gap these
are the word escapes me these are qualifying
factors that put probability so far in your favor
and it was taught to you in advance last week
and the same logic is working here again we're
not trying to predict the closing price here folks
we're just trading a session run something that's
going to yield you something that is clear it's
one-sided it's going to be very pronounced in
price it's it's it's not going to be something
that oh it looks like it could have ran but it's
hard to tell there no it's definitely a run
it's definitely a protraction in price it's
one directional and it goes to a level that can
be predetermined it's not random okay this type
of lesson I would have man I would have given
anything if someone knew this and was willing to
teach it to me when I was first starting because I
would be all over these charts studying annotating
and putting all these things in a journal every
single day and adhering to these rules and I
would be so much better the trader and person and
I wouldn't have all the the mental baggage I have
that I put myself it was self-inflicted but you
have all the advantages of having this information
now and going forward studying it and learning
how to better yourself and avoid all of the [__]
nonsense that's out here there's so many things
being told to you that this is what the Market's
going to do this is what makes the market go up
this is a technique this is a pattern this is
some horseshit this some algo this is some kind
of a u indicator take the [__] indicators off
your chart every single one of them and if that
makes you mad and you watch me or if you like me
and it offends you get over it man because you're
you're literally lying to yourself when you're
saying that that indicator has any bearing on what
prices is doing it has absolutely [__] all to do
with what price is going to do it does nothing
it's literally doing nothing it's calculating
and compressing mathematically old moves that you
can't do [__] about but what am I teaching you
this is the time when the Market's going to
run this is how the move set up they engineer
liquidity then they run the liquidity that's the
manipulation when you see that manipulation guess
guess guess what that means the other side of
the marketplace is now it tag [__] you're it
it's going to go other direction and some of
you are still going to say this is complicated
it's not complicated it literally is the easiest
[__] there's nothing else that can be easier
than this literally I mean how many times again
every time this does this I'm going to show you
again how many times you need to see this before
you start taking it serious and say I'm going to
start journaling and start looking for this stuff
in Old moves and collecting data that way I'm
building pseudo experience that will be used going
forward when I walk test forward everything that's
that's not realized in price delivery yet that
means you're walking forward with the hard right
Edge you don't know what price is going to do next
so you're looking at the chart like this you don't
know what it's going to do so what do you lean on
a lot of you just want to go to live streamers and
just listen what they're doing and if it if they
think it's going to go up you wait for it to move
30 handles if they even hold a trade that long and
then once it starts doing it it's it's usually the
big bold green candle or bullish candle then
you'll go in and buy because it you know it's
got five more handles to run and then it starts
squeezing against you 17 handles and you get out
and but then goes right where you thought it was
going to go or the live streamer hinted that but
never took the trade to get there and that's the
cycle that I watch always panning out it's just
it's just it's crazy how it this does it over and
over and over again but to break that cycle and to
prevent yourself from going through those types of
things you have to have some kind of Baseline you
have to have something you're going to start doing
and measuring and then not only what is price
doing when it's behaving a certain way but how you
feel how you're feeling when when the market does
certain things do you get it real excited when
you get in front of the charts and you anticipate
something happening and it starts moving in your
favor notice are you getting really emotional and
and and like Adrenaline Rush that you're right
and are you focus on the feeling of you being
right at the moment because that's a problem you
cannot invite the warm and fuzzies until you close
the idea it means it goes to terminus where
you would no longer be in a trade and you have
stages of your development before you even get to
that part even with a demo like we're just talking
about the fundamentals of determining what price
is going to do and why it should do it that's the
that's the important the why I'm telling you
when I'm telling you how but I'm telling you
the why it's going to do it that proves there's a
[__] algorithm because if I'm pulling [__] out
of my ass like some people like to go around the
internet and pretend that's what it is how is it
that I'm sitting out here and I'm telling you
beforehand where it's going to go look at the
live streamers on on YouTube predominantly most
of them and I like lots of them and I have an
affinity for a few of them but most of them they
don't know where price is going they're reacting
off of something that forms at a later time they
don't they really don't know where it's drive
driving to and I've counseled one in particular to
watch these lectures to help them so while I'm not
mentioning their name per se they understand what
I'm saying right now and who I'm talking to if you
start to implement these ideas your trades will
grow exponentially in terms of the yield in terms
of how much you're getting out of it the Precision
elements will increase and the comfort of you
being in the trade and not being so skittish about
okay I don't like this I'm getting out I I rarely
have that at in my 20s I was a basket case I'm
watching quot Trek you know watching charts go up
and down just by price and I I didn't have charts
we just watched the data the highest high and the
lowest low and where it's at right now how many
contracts have traded that's it that's what you
had so because of that experience I learned how
to read the tape without realizing knowing that
that's what I was doing and every time the high of
the day would be breached and they would back off
on the bond market or back off on British pound
futures or back off on Silver contracts or crew
oil or whatever I was trading at the time you live
cattle lean Hogs whatever it was I was trading I
wasn't aware that I was learning how the market
will constantly keep pressing into liquidity I
just felt that okay um it's going to be a blastoff
move because we just broke the high of the day
no not realizing that there could be deeper
retracements around elements of time because
anytime the market moved above a certain level
cuz I only want to be a buyer then when I first
started I thought that now it broke out it's going
to keep going higher and I would be frustrated
that we would have retracements and because I
didn't know how far it would retrace I didn't
understand where the fair bag gaps were when
I first started doing this I didn't understand
where the buy side IM balance consequent cro would
be I didn't know where the short-term lows would
be that they would go down there to sweep them and
then start running higher and create a new Bight
about selfs efficiency and that's the one that you
want to try to go long in in the upper half of it
and that's a model right there I didn't I didn't
know those things initially I didn't I didn't have
that understanding I didn't have the Insight
experience seeing it executing on it I didn't
have that these are all things I had to grow
through and through prayer and just helping you
know myself through personal counseling which was
and you hear I I'm I'm swinging from one Spectrum
to the next imagine being the the person that's
going to coach you but also tears yourself down
and you're the person also that just ran into the
tree with that account recklessly driving you know
the next trade before you should have taken it it
was it was crazy like it was literally insane and
how I arrived you if it wasn't God helping me
I would have never arrived at my understanding
of how these markets do this but I had to have
some kind of foundation and I'm providing that
for all of you and and you're not entitled to
it okay I'm not obligated to tell this to you
but I I just know that even when I'm done with
this whenever that end is I don't know what it's
going to be but uh no matter what happens with
Caleb he could be wildly successful he could be
modestly successful you know if he just gets half
his monthly bills I'm tickled to death by that if
he can just make his monthly expense of where he
lives all his bills paid car insurance all those
things he has to pay out of that of his wages I
don't give him money for that so it's a motivation
for him to to do better and everything's expensive
but all of these foundational points here this is
my best for him okay this is my best I'm not
holding back because you're all watching I
am proving to you that this [__] is the real
deal it's the real thing it's exactly what's
going on in the marketplace and I even told you
this is exactly what I use when I'm in other
people's live stream and I'm calling it and many
times it's against what they're saying and it's
not to be rude it's just for me to go and say hey
I support this live streamer I've never talk bad
about him but I'm also there sharing and I'm not
doing it where okay well they're long I'm going to
go short because I'm going to say here's the sell
site I'm just saying this is what I see and the
people that follow me and understand me they know
right away what I'm doing okay he's saying that
it's this is the sell side level he's talking
about so whatever the Market's doing right now
he's going to be looking to go up into some kind
of Premium aray that means go through the time
frames now you know 155 1 go through it and you'll
see the fair value gaps the inversion fair value
gaps the order blocks as I'm talking about here
today reading price like this Caleb you're not
trying I'm not trying to sway your your interest
to to an order block I'm just showing you how when
you're bearish and the market is in sell side
delivery that means it's in a Cell program it's
going lower up closed candles should be used as
a means of staving off any advance higher but not
every up closed candle is going to perform like
that it'll go back up into inefficiencies it may
touch the inefficiency again why because there's
a measure of time that's afforded to it to do that
so if we know that at 9:30 that's like we're at
the game now you know this is it it's the big
game because the opening bell is in 30 minutes so
at at 9:30 right here there as soon as that Bell
opens or sorry as soon as the opening bell happens
and the Market's technically quote unquote open
it's been trading but that's what they call the
day session what has it done well at that moment
it's created these relative equal highs and has
these relative equal highs and that Gap right
there so it can return back into it now I could
have very easily moved my stop higher but I don't
do that because I'm committed to this is what
I see in price if it stops me out I'll stop out
with a gain it's not taking things from me it's
just removing me off the bus before the bus goes
where I was originally on the bus to go to which
is down in here down in here and down in here I
was showing you where the limit order was I wanted
to get out down here but I was going to change
that and you've seen me do this and I know when I
talk like this it's very easy for people with no
character or just they're just little dick energy
boys okay they'll say oh you're saying that and
hind I I literally do this all the time I show you
what I'm interested in but if it starts to really
move I'll take the limit order expand it Beyond
and then I'll start taking single partials off
when it gets the levels I like just go watch my
examples on Twitter and on my YouTube channel like
when I do those things I'm using predom the logic
I'm showing you here okay so this is how you start
learning how to read where price is going to go
because as I said on baby Pips that's your first
lesson you have to know where the Market's going
to go if you don't do your initial work there
anything and everything that you do is wasted time
and I can't stress that enough Caleb if you try to
do anything more than try to figure out where the
Market's going to gravitate to and when you don't
see it like it's if it's not obvious based on what
I'm showing just in last week's lecture and today
if you don't see that in price don't hold an
opinion don't try to form one because the only
thing you'll do is you're going to try to arm
wrestle and develop your will and it'll be many
times contrarian and I I had to wrestle myself
out of a contrarian perspective I mean I there's
certain times where I look for it to be beneficial
for me as a Trader I let my personality which is
what I was talking about here and every other
time I talk about other people's live streams
the ones that have a live chat open and they allow
other people to to talk I am diametrically opposed
to the sentiment of whatever they're saying if
the things I'm teaching are technically there
in price at the time I'm looking for them those
are my best trades those are the times where I'm
absolutely in stunner mode I'm I'm I I got no
problem going out in public and saying this is
where it's going and look how look at the history
on Twitter tens of thousands of you would be in
my live stream or whatever CH space listening
and I'm calling every single individual one
minute candle and where it went to and then you
watch my examples of of recorded trades and then
I'm out here live streaming now giving you the
logic of how I do it and it's still panning out
and you're still going to worry about there is
no algorithm or it's going to stop working or I'm
making up stuff you you're you're worried about
all the wrong things instead of just learning how
to do it yourself you don't have to be a fan of
me I don't want fans I want students that learn
how to do this and they tell me I've been able
to take care of my family I've been able to take
care of my family and I thank you so much for that
and I say in response give praise to God that's it
because I want the invitation to redirect it right
back to him that's it I don't want to be worshiped
I'm not the guru I'm not the you know the goat I'm
not the greatest of all time but I don't ever want
to move my Stop open once I reduce it and I'm
content with getting stopped out if I am if I
moved it too prematurely I'm going to eat it it is
what it is it's just I'm going to live with it and
if it's conducive for me to enter again and it's
not today because we have big news tomorrow and
frankly I'm not interested and it's good for
you to see me trade and see me get stopped out
and still deliver where I said I was going to
go because that's going to happen to you do I
sound regretful no do I feel like I gota go out
and try to save face no because everything I'm
teaching and taught last week is in your chart
it's happening every day and they're not going
to stop doing it because there's a whole lot of
people out there even listening to me they're not
going to do it they're not going to do it folks
they're not going to stick to the rules they're
never going to trade with real money because
they're afraid so there's no there's no concern
there either they're never going to pass their
funded account challenge because they don't have
all the the the wherewithal to be personally
responsible they're going to overtrade they're
going to over leverage even understanding this
they're still going to break the rules that's
why I have students from 2016 that still aren't
profitable not all of them are like that but I do
have students from my very first paid mentorship
that can't find their way through this and the
ones that are honest they've been very candid
with me they say these are the same repeating
things I keep doing and I can't stop I can't help
them they have to make the decision they know what
those things are so they have to figure out what
those triggering mechanisms are that cause them to
keep doing that repeated phenomenon that they know
is going to give them an adverse response it's not
going to get them the results that they're looking
for so they keep doing it over and over again
expecting a different result and that's where the
frustrations coming from and for an educator it's
very frustrating for me because I I'm at at the
I'm at the end of my ability to help them because
now it's all in their hands clearly the things I'm
telling you are there in the chart it's happening
every single day the problem is you're either not
able to identify because you haven't spent enough
time practicing and logging and then watching
price deliver real time looking for these things
to repeat yes if I was told that that had to do
that at 20 years old again that would have sucked
but after I blew a number of accounts I would have
been really interested in trying to do it I know
that because I have the tenacity to do it I I it's
in my makeup to do it I didn't want to go into
this and and except not knowing how to read price
I went in wanting to know everything about it I
wanted to know everything that is there for me to
Tak advantage of everybody else's perspective and
be superior to that was my goal I wasn't trying
to be the best Trader in the world I wanted to be
the guy that knew exactly what's going to happen
and for some of you that just like you know that
can't happen and there are days where I I get it
wrong but that's my that's my desire that's my
that's always been my goal and the way that these
these Concepts you know that I've had to create a
language for so that way you can see what it is
that's behind the scenes that I can't teach you
these are the closest things that get me to that
point and truth be told I am not satisfied with
it because I know know there's some way that
I could probably explain it differently and it
would open up your understanding a lot better
based on what I've already shown that keeps
repeating but even in even knowing that I don't
know how to do that it's very frustrating so
I had to you know be content with what I've
done because I know I have students that do
really really well and if it was something that
wasn't really there they wouldn't be doing well
they they wouldn't make money they wouldn't
have the the the accolades that they can prove
you in front of the world that this is what
they've learned and now they put it to work
and they're making money lots of money you know
they don't work their job they have their own
little business now doing their thing and to me
that's awesome but you have to have some kind
of personal responsibility going into this and
not just look for well it's going to be easy or
I'm just going to say he sucks and he's a fraud
and the stuff doesn't work well first of all you
can't say the stuff doesn't work and you can't
say that it isn't precise and you can't say that
it doesn't have the ability to call the Market
before it happens I mean look at these levels
look look at behaves around these levels and why
it does what it does when it does it see these
are all questions I asked myself initially as a
20-year-old I'm like I don't know why price did
that when it did I didn't see that move there's no
way stop there's no way for me to determine that
move starting when it started like there's no way
for me to have arrived at that and then I would go
in and say okay what was occurring then what did
Price look like then what did every one of these
open high low closed bars because that's what I
was using back then not candlesticks my eyes were
better than they are today and I would stare at
them and make annotations and a lot of things I
thought initially were Catalyst for white did I
soon found out that they had nothing to do with
it and I would search indicators and see which
one of the indicators would do a better job of
determining that it was going to go up or go down
and I wasted so much time with all that stuff and
it really I'm telling you listen sit sit still
for a minute okay because I'm about to close this
video I want you to spend the least amount of
time learning how to do this I really do I want
you to be able to do this and have no fear I want
you to be able do this and know beyond the Shadow
of Doubt even if you make a mistake today or
tomorrow or the next day that you trade that
that loss doesn't undermine your desire to do
this and your confidence in trusting it that's
what I want for you I love you son and I know
that you can do this I know you can but you're
going to have to sit down and go through this
and it's going to be daunting it's going to
feel like you're not learning anything it's
going to feel like it ain't clicking for you
but it's going to happen if you keep pressing
into it you'll see it you'll be able to see
exactly what dad's telling you it's going to do
this and do that we were doing it last was it uh
Sunday we were watching
it not not not uh what was it Friday
when you see these things repeat you'll be able to
do the same thing that was doing this Candlestick
is going to go right up here it's going to stop
right here and then immediately that next candle
or the candle right after that one on a one
minute chart you'll be able to determine the
magnitude the the speed and where it's going
to run right to and it's going to feel like
a mutant superpower and it gives you confidence
and in your age because you're still in your 20s
you could potentially become an arrogant prick
like I was because when you're 20 years old you
already think your [__] doesn't stink and you
walk around and peacock about the smallest of
little things because you want other people to
recognize you and give you an that a boy but
it'll impress dad more if you quell that and you
just learn how to just be consistent and not be
arrogant not be arrogant to your brothers if you
get good at because they're going to look at you
and they're going to pattern themselves after what
you're doing and I want to see you learn how to
do this well and not be arrogant and not try to
talk down to anybody when you start making lots
of money I don't want to see that I want to see
you do well and Be steady Edy you're not trying
to be talking to anybody in a condescending
tone not to not to act like you're better
than everybody else because you're going to want
to do that sometimes and that's not going to be
what people see in you and they're they're not
going to look at you and say wow look at that the
other 20-year-olds are going to want to be like
you if you did that because they feel the same
impulse they want to be significant and they think
acting like that will yield them significance or
clout and I'm trying to tell you as a fdy Dutty
old guy I did all that stuff and I not proud of
it and if you find your way in success with this
stuff and you want to teach everything that you
know that I'm holding back for you getting this
Foundation if you want to give it to the world
that's entirely up to you I won't say no because
once I give it to you it's yours but you have the
ability to determine that but if you're not
properly rooted in decency and modesty and
not being arrogant you you won't be prepared for
it I'll hold it back from you if you if you show
those signatures and your character but if you
use this and you do well with it and you show
that you're not being arrogant or egotistical
or just trying to be better than everybody
else believe me you're going to try it because
it's going to feel like you arrived it's going
to feel like you are are Superstar and therefore
you're you deserve to be treated as a celebrity
don't try to be a celebrity make your money
live well let everybody else think whatever
they want to think about you it doesn't change
it doesn't reduce it doesn't increase it but your
concern about everybody else's opinion about
you will be a personal reflection on you and
you'll care more about that stuff than just
the things that you're supposed to be doing
watching this thing just
Cascade lower and lower and
lower what a beautiful Drop did
something happen I don't have any
news wires in front of me because I'm just
on my laptop wondering that uh something
just happened there I mean technically we've
went back to the level I already outlined to
you well I said what I wanted to say today
and I I showed you the logic working you
saw me get stopped out knocking out at like um
trailed stop loss so it's not a loss um when I
showed uh how all these Concepts work and I
talk about how the Market's going to behave
and it does it on Twitter I had always people
asking me all the time can you show a losing
trade can you just do it wrong once in a while
and I'll be honest with you the 20-year-old me
loved seeing that the 20-year-old in me loved
reading comments like that and I would Snicker
and I'd smile and I'd look at my wife I'd look
at my sons and say look at this and that was
just me just nodding to the younger man and
me saying that's what you want to see all the
time but if I do it if I show you it's real it's
organic like today and I'm telling you when I'm
interested in going back in and when I'm not
so what does it mean for tomorrow then I'm
going to close it obviously we have the 8:30 news
drivers on Tuesday and Wednesday they're going to
absolutely be Bonkers it's going to be nuts I'm
not trying to predict the market ahead of that
um you've seen on Twitter and wherever else I've
tried to do it before I've done my streams where
I thought where was going to go to and it would go
the other direction which is fine because I'm not
trying to trade ahead of the CPI I'm not trying
to trade ahead of the PPI number uh they're face
rippers they're literally decapitate you if you're
wrong and it's unforgiving so what we are doing
is we're going to start our session at uh 9:15
tomorrow and on Wednesday and Thursday and Friday
so I'll give you my pre-market view I'll go right
into that I'll talk about the levels I'll have
them on my charts that way it's already done and
I can just point to them okay I I don't want to
draw them out because it's a little too tedious I
did that last week so we can see it how it's done
but they'll already be on the chart populated so
then when the stream starts I'll say okay good
morning whatever you and then point to this this
is what I'm looking at this is interesting to me
this is where my focus is and I want to see if
it does this or that then therefore I would be
looking for price to go here or there as a result
of that okay so the rest of the week you'll see
how I'm really looking at price and formulating an
idea around bias maybe talk about you know how the
market May behave in specific profiles not that
you need to know how to do that right now Caleb
it's not even really essential at all really um
because all you're looking for is a run from a a
a a stop hunt that is engineered based around time
then price then it goes to an area of inefficiency
drawing to a new week opening Gap and or a
clustering of new day open or new week opening
Gap or a clustering of new day opening gaps so
it's this very very Bland not sexy not terribly
exciting rule-based idea of determining where the
Market's likely to go to and why it's the same
logic I taught you last week it's the same Jour
idea I taught when I was teaching liquidity but
I'm giving you a much more refined right to the
point even though there's a whole lot of other
stuff in here because I'm talking to my son and
if you don't like go [__] yourself the idea is
that you want to strip it down to the Chrome where
is it going why should it go there and how can I
know when it's going to start doing it and what is
the beginning of that move well you're looking for
the market to open up at your time when you're
going to sit down in front of the charts and if
price is above new week opening Gap clustering of
new day opening gaps the market will tend to seek
those old reference points then if you're going
to be looking for it to go lower you want to see
relative equal highs form and then Pierce them and
then once it rejects that all you have to do is
get on board with a fair value Gap institutional
orderflow entry drill a bearish breaker
a bearish order block a bearish mitigation block
inversion fair value Gap that used to be viewed
as maybe something that would have been bullish
but now once it trades below it if it trades back
up into it see how fast it easily becomes usable
the language now suddenly means something instead
of just talking like an ICT student or smt uh no
not SMC smart money Concepts Trader you understand
what that stuff means not just using buzzwords
and you know what you're looking for and by
having that that understanding that repeats in the
processes that you go through following specific
protocols you'll learn by experience where your
best setups for your personal risk and appetite
for leveraging anything in here in terms of
real money there's no shortcuts to it son I
promise you if there was I would be giving it to
you and you'd already be using it but this this
is the first part that everybody has to do you
have to do this part and it's a it's a sped up
Advanced perspective on on the things I've already
taught but this is the shortest route through it
there's no there's nothing I can do to shorten
this learning curve with what I'm showing you
here and for some of you that are listening from
the outside and you think that this is too hard
too too daunting for you I am not the mentor
for you and it's okay you don't have to you know
insult me on the way out you just never have to
come back here again don't waste your time if if
if what I'm showing you here doesn't resonate with
you and you can't see this is what the Market's
doing and how it's behaving don't watch anything
from me don't even watch anybody else that talks
about my stuff because they're not going to make
it any easier for you I promise you they will
not explain this they had no understanding what I
gave last week at all all zero not one of my paid
mentorship students knew what I was teaching last
week you heard all the same terms but you did not
get it laid out like that ever by me and none
of them were teaching like that so you're all
in the same playing field right now it's all been
evenly distributed to all of you at the same time
don't try to skip ahead and don't try to be better
faster than you should be you're not even supposed
to be taking trades right now but the logic is
is it gravitating away from these things at the
same time is it occurring at when we should see
it happen the backdrop behind the trade when it
went to this level here piercing above just these
little short-term highs after 7 o'cl formed all
that logic that's the repeating phenomenons that
you're going to get real comfortable with and
that means that you know what you're looking
for how many times have you spent looking at
the chart thinking damn I wish my dad could just
tell me how to read this easier like all it looks
like a foreign language like I I used to look at
charts and it would just bleed together in the in
the open high little closed bars you ever stare
and all a sudden it goes to a blur and you like
almost like a double vision like crossing your
eyes I would be like that two hours before going
to work and I have been up all night long and
I have to drive for a living back then and it
felt like a language I was never going to learn
I know what that feels like but eventually doing
these things you're going to start seeing it
like sheep music I know you not have played
an instrument you can read Sheep music to me I
don't know what the hell that is okay just so
you guys know my son played the trombone in school
he was in marching band and my oldest son Cody he
used to play the saxophone and Cameron played the
drums and Kaden didn't play any instruments but uh
they had the ability of reading sheet music and
I I can't like I cannot read it I've tried it
just I don't know what it is if something says no
you are not going to pass so I I have I have an
understanding what it's like for people when they
see me talk about what price is going to do and to
the degree it does it I understand it seems like
something you can't do but I'm confident son I'm
absolutely confident that everything I taught
you last week and what's in this today and the
the reinforcement ideas I'm giving you here that's
all you need and the rest is you just practicing
it and studying it and collecting the information
I promise you you will have the ability to do what
you see me doing here it doesn't mean you know
how to buy and sell and pyramid and every entry
that that that's all that this is not that's not
important but being able to read where price is
going to go that is your first mutant power all of
you listening that's your first goal to get good
at that because everything after that point is
easy you'll anticipate fair value gaps when it's
when you're likely to see it Go lower just simply
wait for it to form on the chart and that's what
forward walk testing is walking forward testing
delivery of price where you're not pressing any
buttons you're just tape reading you're going
to watch them form and say okay it's it's going
to drive up into that fair value Gap and then I
want to see the upper half of it stay open and
then when it does okay now it's going to drop
hard and you keep doing this every single day
week after week for months and then what will
happen is you get really comfortable doing it and
then that's your invitation to start doing demo
trades but before you get consistently able to
be able to see what price is doing and anticipate
the formation of the fair value Gap waiting for
it to be there and then anticipating it trading
up into it or down into it when it's going to
go higher until you get to that point where
you can anticipate that forming you shouldn't
even be thinking about a demo you shouldn't even
have a demo available to you it should be just
watching price not worrying about nothing and when
it's boring and it keeps repeating you have to get
to that point when it's boring to you watching
price action and you can see what it's doing how
it's behaving it's measurable it should not go
past this point therefore what you're saying is
without saying so with the demo account is a stop
loss just outside that boundry point should not
be traded to so the trade should still be open if
you were in a demo or if you're in a live account
and you're teaching yourself and desensitizing
yourself to the fluctuations when you're looking
at the chart without this information or not
knowing how to trade with another methodology
I'm not I mean I have to say this because I know
when I say certain things like this it sounds very
condescending to like nobody else makes money but
ict's uh Traders no but if you're consistently
making money you're following something that you
spent time with you you know it intimately these
are the things that repeat this is what it usually
does do and I trust it so therefore I'm willing to
put risk behind it when you get to this point
of knowing had to anticipate the setups that
it's going to create relative equal highs because
the new week opening Gap and the new day opening
gaps are below price at 7 o'clock so I know at 7
o'clock I'm waiting for a relative equal High to
form right away contrast that with you not knowing
what price is doing or anything nobody thinks like
that except for our community and it's something
that we anticipate and we're sitting there waiting
for it to form guess what that gives you patience
it overcomes fear it manages anxiety because you
know what you're looking for and you know why
you're waiting for it because if it can create
relative equal highs then you're going to wait for
it to come back up to it and Pierce it and it does
it there and then from that point you want to see
every premium array that means anything that I ICT
could use to get into a short idea which one makes
the most sense to you and that's your initial
model that's the one you practice with and it may
morph into something different it may be you know
it may not be fair value G for Caleb he may end up
becoming you know an order Bo Traer it's something
else you know but I'm forcing him to that way
he has a foundation because I don't know how
to address questions with him or direct him and I
don't have the ability and I don't have the time
to do this for everybody and I know some of you
are sending me stuff and you're emailing me these
long really long emails and I'm sure there are
some really nice things being said in there but
you're asking me to have this one-on-one coaching
typ type thing with you I'm not doing that so
please don't be offended by it but I have no time
or interest in doing that you're getting the best
of the best because I'm sharing it with my son and
you you're you're getting an experience that I had
no interest in having with anybody else so just be
content with that you clearly see it works I mean
it works I that's you want this kind of stuff you
want to be able to see the things that supposedly
the person you paid or bought a course from or a
software package or whatever if it doesn't work
you you'll see right away it doesn't work but on
the other side of the coin is if it works and it
works really really well and its logic is so sound
that it's scary like this is information that the
general populist they don't think like this the
Aver Traders don't think like this and that's why
it's hard for them to listen to someone like me
and yeah I make it entertaining for myself to be
the prick the condescending prick when when it's
entertainment value only because I knew how to
draw a crowd that's the that's the purpose of it
I want people to talk I don't need to advertise
because if I say all the right things and push
buttons they'll talk and then it calls people's
attention to my channel and then they'll come here
and then I'm giving them that litmus test see if
it's real and see if it's not if it doesn't if
it doesn't work and appear in your charts then
it ain't real right and that means that you
don't have to ever come back and do anything
with me but I love converting people and I love
it when they're coming at me as someone that is
adversarial initially and I have lots of students
like that it's much more satisfying doing that if
I can convert them and they came here to either
insult me or try to say this that and I think
there no algorithm doesn't work and all of a
sudden they're they're finding that it works
and they're like dude like just I was there I
was just like the rest of you that talk [__]
about him but I can't say that now because I'm
making bread I'm I'm living on it now I love that
that's how I scratch my ego I get off on that that
really gets my rocks off so I it's an art managing
expectations leading people enough to make them
want to talk about me and then that creates
traffic and I never had to advertise because
I know how to instill in interest that will
cause other people to draw other people to this
channel it's simple as that and if I advertised it
would have been worse it would it would have been
really blown up but I don't need to do that but
you'll get to this point where you know exactly
what you're doing when you're going to do it and
when you don't want to do it and you're not going
to have any regret when you do or don't because
you're content being content as a Trader is such
an elusive thing and you think making lots of
money should equate to being content and it won't
it won't be like that that doesn't lots of money
being made doesn't make you content lots of money
generally is a result of you chasing lots of money
being content with making plenty and not needing
to try to worry about other people's opinion of
how well they how hold an opinion of you Caleb
is the wrong direction there's lots of people out
there that can't wait to see you be ICT 2.0 I am
looking for you to do the things I wish I could go
back in time and not have done and I wish I could
change about me I want to have that kind of impact
on you in your development I want you to be humble
when you make a lot of money call no attention to
it call no attention to it because other people
in their learning they're going to be inspired by
that but there's a whole lot of other individuals
that are going to see you and they're going to
hate you because they're not going to learn it
as fast as you might learn it or if you take
longer because it could happen if you struggle a
little bit longer than both of us think it's going
to take for you to do this that's going to be a
reassurance to some of them and they're going to
be like you know I'm glad that he didn't go right
into this because if you if you take off and you
start doing really well invariably they're going
to say it's me doing everything and since you want
to do this and share every every aspect of it you
they're going to see that it ain't me when you
when you share your your feedback when we're doing
our weekend reviews and or talking about what your
observations were and what you thought was going
to happen and it didn't happen that way I expect
you to be really candid about it and say look you
know this is what I thought and it was you maybe
discouraging I want you initially to say where you
thought it was going to happen and it happened and
I want you to share how it felt and then we're
going to move away from that happy good feel good
you know warm fuzzy stuff because that needs to be
outside of your trading the Deep anxiety and fear
and worry that can't be part of it and the Elation
of just being high and you can't do anything wrong
you got to keep that out of it too but in the
beginning you want that more than anything because
that means it's successful that means you're doing
everything right and I'm telling you it's normal
for you to feel that but you can't have that as
a steady diet because it will constantly be the
goal and that's not the goal the goal is to be
indifferent when you can get up and say I know
I can go out there and find the next move I
know I can participate in it but I don't have
to but I'm choosing to sit down in front of chice
because this is what I anticipate it doing because
this is what my back testing my journaling my
dad's taught me and it works like swis time piece
precision and I have to get myself acclimated
to that precision and develop a synchronicity
to that Precision because you are not going to
beat the market ever son that's never going to
happen the only thing you can aspire to do is
get in sync with it you're not beating the market
you're not beating Dad okay you're just getting
in sync with the market and that's all you need
you just need pieces of the week from Sunday's
open to Friday's close where everything is just
right for you then sit down follow the rules dad's
teaching engage with it and when it gives you what
you're looking for be content turn the charts
off that's exactly what I'm looking for if if
you do that son I will be the happiest most
proudest Dad I've ever been because I know
that that will yield the interest with your
brothers and then they're what are they going
to do they're going to try to pattern thems
off of you and that will send me over the
moon I'm not expecting you to be an Olympic feat
Trader I'm not expecting you to do any Crazy Town
stuff I just want you to do just enough and you'll
see as soon as you start making what you make it
your job and how fast it can be done over the
course of a week with very little effort then
your mind will shift to thinking wow if I'm
only doing this much and I'm not emotionally
driven to do more what happens when I allow
money management to do all the heavy lifting
and then your account starts to Parlay and parlay
and parlay and you're not doing any more effort
than you did when you developed your own model
you're not doing any more heavy lifting you're
just doing the same minuscule amount but the
management of your money and the equity that
it supports will do all the heavy lifting and
you're never doing any more in terms of greater
than 1% risk you're never going to assume a trade
that has more than 1% risk you're not going to try
to trade every session you're not trying to trade
more than one time a day and if you take a loss
you're done and that's that's your model it's
not I'm going to go back in and make it you're
done those were the things I should have done
when I was 20 if I would have done that my life
would be so much better if I would have done
that instead of trying to be Mr Wonderful Mr
everything I put myself through stuff and caused
all kinds of mental Scar Tissue chasing Perfection
chasing more money trying to outo everybody else
when I had enough I had enough to do exceptionally
well and never need to do anything else but I kept
tinkering and tinkering and tinkering and then I
took away from the real reasons why I was wanting
the trade is I wanted to live comfortably I didn't
want anybody tell me when I had to go to work
when I can take a vacation and whatnot and you're
feeling that right now when Mom and Dad just say
we're out here we're getting up either get on the
road and get on with the RV or if we just run a
car because I don't drive my personal car and I go
away um we can do that anytime we want and that's
one of the things that my kids tell me all the
time I want to live like you Dad okay this is how
you can get there but it isn't going to be fast it
isn't going to be easy in the beginning but once
you understand these rules once you understand
what it is that you're trying to replicate every
time you do this you're going to see it's the
same stuff and some days you'll think you see it a
certain way and it won't pan out that way and the
outcome will be adverse it won't be a good thing
but it doesn't mean it changes anything it doesn't
mean no longer works or you know you're not going
to be successful it just means okay stop if you
have one bad result and you're limited to only one
exposure to to the outcome good or bad for that
day and you stop you can't be mad you never are
going to have an anxiety attack you're never going
to be panicked about getting it back right away
because this is the normal procedure if I take a
losing trade I have to stop that prevents you from
going into tilt that prevents you from getting
greedy it prevents you from being fearful of not
knowing what to do because you feel like you got
to get it back and you tried it again you lost
again now you made a little loss now bigger you'll
never want to overtrade you'll never need to over
leverage it's be it becomes your job you when you
go to work you're not trying to do more than what
your supervisor is asking you to do nobody does
nobody works like that and your trading needs to
be the same way you need to simply just look at
it and say well this is this is what I expect the
Market's going to do and I see this potentially
being there as a setup and if I take it and I lose
okay no problem I'm going to turn the computer off
I'm not going to give myself any toxic fuel to
just worry myself into uh anxiety or grief about
it and I'll try it again tomorrow I'll log it
tonight when the Market's done and it's over it's
it it's painless it's literally painless that's a
systematic approach of controlling fear and greed
but I have a lot of students that hear me say that
and they know that that would work and that would
have worked for them if they could stick to it
the problem is social media invites it ICT live
streaming now invites more of an interest in doing
stuff and it's hard to say I'm not going to look
at the charts or trade anymore especially if you
have a losing trade because you feel like you got
to fix it and you don't need to fix it you need
to feel what it feels like to go home with it and
then over the course of a month and see how that
one or two or maybe five losing trades over the
course of a month has absolutely no real effect on
what you're doing and Direction you're going but
you can't appreciate that just because I said it
like anything else when you were growing up if I
told you don't do this you were the first one out
of all the kids well Dad said not to do it soon as
Dad turns around I'm gonna do I'm gonna do that
so I know it's it's it's an inherent nature in
anyone but of all my kids you've had that in you
so I'm telling you this is the best way way that
you should go about it and it's for your benefit
to do it and as a default I would be very very
proud if you are able to do it this way because
that means you're going to be better than me and
I really want that son I want you to be better
than me in every aspect and if you listen to me
you will be and I can't wait to see it but that's
it for this one I'm going to close it and I guess
we'll be back at it again tomorrow at 9:15 Lord
willing and until I'll talk to you then be safe